docs/docs/user-guides/add-devices.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Add Devices
nav_order: 2
parent: User Guides
description: >
  To add devices to Firezone, follow these commands.
---
---

Add a device through the Web UI by clicking the "Add Device" button under
`/devices` or `/users`.

![add device under devices](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/153468000-06b2ea64-30b3-4f62-a2f4-043e5f231cb4.png){:width="600"}

![add device under user](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/153467794-a9912bf0-2a13-4d05-9df9-2bd6e32b594c.png){:width="600"}

Once the device profile is created, you can send the WireGuard configuration
file to the user by:

* **Shareable Link**: Generates a time limited link to the device config file
that can be sent to the user.
* **Download Config**: Downloads the device config file to your local machine
to be sent securely to the user.

Devices are associated with users. See [Add Users
]({% link docs/user-guides/add-users.md %}) for more information on how to add
a user.

\
[Related: Client Instructions]({%link docs/user-guides/client-instructions.md%}){:.btn.btn-purple}

Commit message:

Rename devices to tunnels (#467)
* Rename files first

* Rename device->tunnel

docs/docs/user-guides/add-devices.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Add Tunnels
nav_order: 2
parent: User Guides
description: >
  To add tunnels to Firezone, follow these commands.
---
---

Add a tunnel through the Web UI by clicking the "Add Tunnel" button under
`/tunnels` or `/users`.

![add tunnel under tunnels](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/153468000-06b2ea64-30b3-4f62-a2f4-043e5f231cb4.png){:width="600"}

![add tunnel under user](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/153467794-a9912bf0-2a13-4d05-9df9-2bd6e32b594c.png){:width="600"}

Once the tunnel profile is created, you can send the WireGuard configuration
file to the user by:

* **Shareable Link**: Generates a time limited link to the tunnel config file
that can be sent to the user.
* **Download Config**: Downloads the tunnel config file to your local machine
to be sent securely to the user.

Tunnels are associated with users. See [Add Users
]({% link docs/user-guides/add-users.md %}) for more information on how to add
a user.

\
[Related: Client Instructions]({%link docs/user-guides/client-instructions.md%}){:.btn.btn-purple}
