docs/docs/user-guides/client-instructions.mdx, before:

---
title: Client Instructions
sidebar_position: 4
---

## Install and Setup

Follow this guide to establish a VPN session
through the WireGuard native client.

### Step 1: Install the native WireGuard client

Firezone is compatible with the official WireGuard clients found here:

* [macOS](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/wireguard/id1451685025)
* [Windows](https://download.wireguard.com/windows-client/wireguard-installer.exe)
* [iOS](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/wireguard/id1441195209)
* [Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.wireguard.android)

For operating systems not listed above see the Official WireGuard site: [
https://www.wireguard.com/install/](https://www.wireguard.com/install/).

### Step 2: Download the device config file

The device config file can either be obtained from your Firezone administrator
or self-generated via the Firezone portal.

To self generate a device config file, visit the domain provided by your Firezone
administrator. This URL will be specific to your company
(in this example it is `https://firezone.example.com`)

![Firezone Okta SSO Login](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156855886-5a4a0da7-065c-4ec1-af33-583dff4dbb72.gif)

### Step 3: Enable on boot (optional)

Open the WireGuard client and import the `.conf` file.
Activate the VPN session by toggling the `Activate` switch.

![Activate Tunnel](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156859686-41755bf7-a9ad-42ec-af5e-9f0734d962db.gif)

## Re-authenticating your session

If your network admin has required periodic authentication to maintain your VPN session,
follow the steps below. You will need:

* **URL of the Firezone portal**: Ask your Network Admin for the link.
* **Credentials**: Your username and password should be provided by your Network
Admin. If your company is using a Single Sign On provider (like Google or Okta),
the Firezone portal will prompt you to authenticate via that provider.

### Step 1: Deactivate VPN session

![WireGuard Deactivate](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156859259-a3d386ce-b304-4caa-96e6-a8e7ca96d098.png)

### Step 2: Re-authenticate

Visit the URL of your Firezone portal and sign in using credentials provided by your
network admin. If you are already logged into the portal,
click the `Reauthenticate` button, then sign in again.

![re-authenticate](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/155812962-9b8688c1-00af-41e4-96c3-8fb52f840aed.gif)

### Step 3: Activate VPN session

![Activate Session](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156859636-fde95fc5-5b9c-4697-9108-2f277ed3fbef.png)

## Client app features

### Automatically enable the VPN (on-demand)

:::note
Requires admin access.
:::

On-demand can be set to automatically enable the VPN under certain
network conditions.

On the Android and iOS mobile apps you can automatically
enable the VPN on Wi-fi and/or Cellular networks.

On the MacOS and Windows desktop apps you can automatically
enable the VPN on Wi-fi networks and/or Ethernet connections.

## Linux - Network Manager

The following steps can be used on Linux devices to import the WireGuard
configuration profile using Network Manager CLI (`nmcli`).

:::note
Importing the configuration file using the Network Manager GUI may fail
with the following error if the profile has IPv6 support enabled:

```text
ipv6.method: method "auto" is not supported for WireGuard
```

:::

### Step 1: Install the WireGuard Tools

The WireGuard userspace tools need to be installed. For most Linux
distributions this will be a package named `wireguard` or `wireguard-tools`.

For Debian/Ubuntu:

```shell
sudo apt install wireguard
```

For Fedora:

```shell
sudo dnf install wireguard-tools
```

For Arch Linux:

```shell
sudo pacman -S wireguard-tools
```

For distributions not listed above see the Official WireGuard site: [
https://www.wireguard.com/install/](https://www.wireguard.com/install/).

### Step 2: Download configuration

The device config file can either be obtained from your Firezone administrator
or self-generated via the Firezone portal.

To self generate a device config file, visit the domain provided by your Firezone
administrator. This URL will be specific to your company
(in this example it is `https://firezone.example.com`)

![Firezone Okta SSO Login](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156855886-5a4a0da7-065c-4ec1-af33-583dff4dbb72.gif)

### Step 3: Import configuration

Using `nmcli`, import the downloaded configuration file:

```shell
sudo nmcli connection import type wireguard file /path/to/configuration.conf
```

:::note
The WireGuard connection/interface will match the name of the configuration
file. If required, the connection can be renamed after import:

```shell
nmcli connection modify [old name] connection.id [new name]
```

:::

### Step 4: Connect/disconnect

To connect to the VPN via the command line:

```shell
nmcli connection up [vpn name]
```

To disconnect:

```shell
nmcli connection down [vpn name]
```

If using a GUI, the relevant Network Manager applet can also be used to control
the connection.

### Auto Connection

The VPN connection can be set to automatically connect by setting the `autoconnect`
option to `yes`:

```shell
nmcli connection modify [vpn name] connection.autoconnect yes
```

To disable the automatic connection set it back to `no`:

```shell
nmcli connection modify [vpn name] connection.autoconnect no
```

## Enable Multi-Factor Authentication

To enable MFA navigate to `/user_account/register_mfa` in the Firezone portal.
After generating the QR code, scan using your authenticator app and
input the 6 digit code.

If you lose your authenticator app, contact your Admin to reset
access to your account.

Commit message:

Docs - Improve titles and descriptions (#1187)
* docs: update titles, descriptions

Changes:
- set more descriptive titles (better for readers and SEO)
- add meta descriptions
- convert titles to sentence case for consistency

* docs: small fixes

* fix trailing whitespaces

* fix spelling

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Jamil <jamilbk@users.noreply.github.com>
Signed-off-by: Jason G <jason@firez.one>

* add descriptions to client instructions

Signed-off-by: Jason G <jason@firez.one>
Co-authored-by: Jamil <jamilbk@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/docs/user-guides/client-instructions.mdx, after:

---
title: Client Instructions
sidebar_position: 4
description:
    Set up your client app to connect to your organizations private
    networks and resources. Download the open-source WireGuard® app
    for your operating system (Windows, MacOS, iOS, Android, Linux) to
    get started.
---

# End-user Client Instructions

Follow these instructions if you're an end-user trying to set up your WireGuard client to work with Firezone.

## Install and setup

Follow this guide to establish a VPN session
through the WireGuard native client.

### Step 1: Install the native WireGuard client

Firezone is compatible with the official WireGuard clients found here:

* [macOS](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/wireguard/id1451685025)
* [Windows](https://download.wireguard.com/windows-client/wireguard-installer.exe)
* [iOS](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/wireguard/id1441195209)
* [Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.wireguard.android)

For operating systems not listed above see the Official WireGuard site: [
https://www.wireguard.com/install/](https://www.wireguard.com/install/).

### Step 2: Download the device config file

The device config file can either be obtained from your Firezone administrator
or self-generated via the Firezone portal.

To self generate a device config file, visit the domain provided by your Firezone
administrator. This URL will be specific to your company
(in this example it is `https://firezone.example.com`)

![Firezone Okta SSO Login](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156855886-5a4a0da7-065c-4ec1-af33-583dff4dbb72.gif)

### Step 3: Enable on boot (optional)

Open the WireGuard client and import the `.conf` file.
Activate the VPN session by toggling the `Activate` switch.

![Activate Tunnel](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156859686-41755bf7-a9ad-42ec-af5e-9f0734d962db.gif)

## Re-authenticating your session

If your network admin has required periodic authentication to maintain your VPN session,
follow the steps below. You will need:

* **URL of the Firezone portal**: Ask your Network Admin for the link.
* **Credentials**: Your username and password should be provided by your Network
Admin. If your company is using a Single Sign On provider (like Google or Okta),
the Firezone portal will prompt you to authenticate via that provider.

### Step 1: Deactivate VPN session

![WireGuard Deactivate](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156859259-a3d386ce-b304-4caa-96e6-a8e7ca96d098.png)

### Step 2: Re-authenticate

Visit the URL of your Firezone portal and sign in using credentials provided by your
network admin. If you are already logged into the portal,
click the `Reauthenticate` button, then sign in again.

![re-authenticate](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/155812962-9b8688c1-00af-41e4-96c3-8fb52f840aed.gif)

### Step 3: Activate VPN session

![Activate Session](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156859636-fde95fc5-5b9c-4697-9108-2f277ed3fbef.png)

## Client app features

### Automatically enable the VPN (on-demand)

:::note
Requires admin access.
:::

On-demand can be set to automatically enable the VPN under certain
network conditions.

On the Android and iOS mobile apps you can automatically
enable the VPN on Wi-fi and/or Cellular networks.

On the MacOS and Windows desktop apps you can automatically
enable the VPN on Wi-fi networks and/or Ethernet connections.

## Linux - Network Manager

The following steps can be used on Linux devices to import the WireGuard
configuration profile using Network Manager CLI (`nmcli`).

:::note
Importing the configuration file using the Network Manager GUI may fail
with the following error if the profile has IPv6 support enabled:

```text
ipv6.method: method "auto" is not supported for WireGuard
```

:::

### Step 1 - Install the WireGuard tools

The WireGuard userspace tools need to be installed. For most Linux
distributions this will be a package named `wireguard` or `wireguard-tools`.

For Debian/Ubuntu:

```shell
sudo apt install wireguard
```

For Fedora:

```shell
sudo dnf install wireguard-tools
```

For Arch Linux:

```shell
sudo pacman -S wireguard-tools
```

For distributions not listed above see the Official WireGuard site: [
https://www.wireguard.com/install/](https://www.wireguard.com/install/).

### Step 2: Download configuration

The device config file can either be obtained from your Firezone administrator
or self-generated via the Firezone portal.

To self generate a device config file, visit the domain provided by your Firezone
administrator. This URL will be specific to your company
(in this example it is `https://firezone.example.com`)

![Firezone Okta SSO Login](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156855886-5a4a0da7-065c-4ec1-af33-583dff4dbb72.gif)

### Step 3: Import configuration

Using `nmcli`, import the downloaded configuration file:

```shell
sudo nmcli connection import type wireguard file /path/to/configuration.conf
```

:::note
The WireGuard connection/interface will match the name of the configuration
file. If required, the connection can be renamed after import:

```shell
nmcli connection modify [old name] connection.id [new name]
```

:::

### Step 4: Connect/disconnect

To connect to the VPN via the command line:

```shell
nmcli connection up [vpn name]
```

To disconnect:

```shell
nmcli connection down [vpn name]
```

If using a GUI, the relevant Network Manager applet can also be used to control
the connection.

### Auto connection

The VPN connection can be set to automatically connect by setting the `autoconnect`
option to `yes`:

```shell
nmcli connection modify [vpn name] connection.autoconnect yes
```

To disable the automatic connection set it back to `no`:

```shell
nmcli connection modify [vpn name] connection.autoconnect no
```

## Enable multi-factor authentication

To enable MFA navigate to `/user_account/register_mfa` in the Firezone portal.
After generating the QR code, scan using your authenticator app and
input the 6 digit code.

If you lose your authenticator app, contact your Admin to reset
access to your account.
