website/src/app/kb/directory-sync/okta/readme.mdx, before:

import Alert from "@/components/DocsAlert";
import PlanBadge from "@/components/PlanBadge";
import SupportOptions from "@/components/SupportOptions";
import Image from "next/image";
import Link from "next/link";

<PlanBadge plans={["enterprise"]}>

# Sync with Okta

</PlanBadge>

On Enterprise plans, Firezone can automatically synchronize users and groups
from your Okta tenant. This eliminates the need to manually create and manage
users in Firezone. You can add multiple Okta directories to sync from different
Okta organizations.

## Overview

Users and groups assigned to your Okta authentication app will be automatically
synced to Firezone.

To enable directory sync, you'll create an API service app in Okta that allows
Firezone to connect to the Okta APIs with read-only access to users, groups, and
applications.

<Alert color="info">
  **Prerequisite:** Before proceeding, you must have completed [Okta
  authentication setup](/kb/authenticate/okta). Directory sync requires an
  existing Okta authentication provider to function.
</Alert>

## Setup

### Step 1: Create a custom role in Okta

To ensure Firezone has only the minimum required permissions, you'll create a
custom role in Okta with read-only access to users, groups, and a specific set
of applications.

#### Create a Resource Set

First, create a Resource Set that defines which Okta resources the Firezone API
service app can access.

In your Okta admin portal, go to **Security → Administrators**, select the
**Resources** tab and click **Create new resource set**.

<Link href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/resources-tab.png" target="_blank">
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/resources-tab.png"
    alt="Okta Resource Set"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

Configure the Resource Set as follows:

- **Name**: `Firezone Resources`
- **Description**: `Resources for Firezone Directory Sync`
- **Resources**:
  - **Applications** → `Firezone OIDC app`
  - **Users** → `All Users`
  - **Groups** → `All Groups`

Click **Create**.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/resource-set-configuration.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/resource-set-configuration.png"
    alt="Okta Resource Set Configuration"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

#### Create a Custom Role

Now create a custom role that will be assigned to the Firezone API service app.

In the **Administrators** page, select the **Roles** tab and click **Create new
role**.

Configure the role as follows:

- **Role name**: `Firezone Sync Read Only`
- **Role description**: `Read-only access for Firezone directory sync`

Under **Permissions**, add the following:

- **View users and their details**
- **View groups and their details**
- **View applications and their details**

Click **Save role**.

<Link href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/create-new-role.png" target="_blank">
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/create-new-role.png"
    alt="Okta create new role"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

### Step 2: Start the Directory Sync setup in Firezone

In a new browser tab, open your Firezone admin portal, and go to **Settings →
Directory Sync**.

Click the **Add Directory** button and choose **Okta**.

You should now see a setup form. Click the **Generate Keypair** button to create
a public/private key pair that will be used for authentication during directory
sync.

Keep this page open as you'll need the public key and other values in the next
step.

### Step 3: Create an API service app in Okta

In your Okta admin portal, go to **Applications → Applications** and click
**Create App Integration**.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/create-app-integration.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/create-app-integration.png"
    alt="Okta create app integration"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

In the modal that appears, select **API Services** and click **Next**.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/create-app-integration-modal.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/create-app-integration-modal.png"
    alt="Okta create new role"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

Give the app a descriptive name such as **Firezone Directory Sync**.

Click **Save** to create the application.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-name.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-name.png"
    alt="Okta name new app integration"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

#### Configure client authentication

Once the app is created, you'll need to configure its authentication method.

On the **General** tab, click **Edit** in the **Client Credentials** section.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-general-tab.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-general-tab.png"
    alt="Okta app integration general tab"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

Select **Public key / Private key** for the **Client authentication** method.

Under the **PUBLIC KEYS** section, click **Add key**.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-general-edit.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-general-edit.png"
    alt="Okta app integration general tab edit"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

In the modal that appears, paste the public key from your Firezone setup form
and click **Done**.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/add-public-key-modal.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/add-public-key-modal.png"
    alt="Okta add public key"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

Click **Save** to save your changes.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-with-pub-key.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-with-pub-key.png"
    alt="Okta new app integration save"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

#### Grant API scopes

Navigate to the **Okta API Scopes** tab and grant the following scopes:

- **okta.apps.read**
- **okta.groups.read**
- **okta.users.read**

These scopes provide read-only access to applications, groups, and users.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-api-scopes.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-api-scopes.png"
    alt="Okta new app integration API scopes"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

#### Assign the custom role

Navigate to the **Admin roles** tab and click **Edit Assignments**.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-admin-roles.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-admin-roles.png"
    alt="Okta new app integration assign role"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

Configure the role assignment as follows:

- **Role**: Select **Firezone Sync Read Only** (the custom role you created in
  Step 1)
- **Resource set**: Select **Firezone Resources** (the resource set you created
  in Step 1)

Click **Save Changes**.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-role-assignment.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-role-assignment.png"
    alt="Okta new app integration assign role"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

The Okta configuration is now complete.

### Step 4: Complete the Firezone setup

Return to the Firezone Directory Sync setup form and fill in the following
values from your Okta environment:

- **Okta Domain**: Click your username in the upper right corner of the Okta
  dashboard to find your Okta domain (e.g., `your-company.okta.com`)
- **Client ID**: Found on the **General** tab of your Firezone Directory Sync
  API service app in Okta

Once all fields are filled out, click **Verify Now**.

Firezone will attempt to connect to Okta and verify the configuration. If
successful, you'll see a confirmation message and can click **Create** to
complete the setup.

<Alert color="success">

**Directory Sync is now active!**

Users and groups assigned to your Okta authentication app will automatically
sync to Firezone. You no longer need to manually create users in the Firezone
portal.

</Alert>

## Sync timing

Directory sync runs automatically every 2 hours. To trigger a sync immediately,
click the **Sync Now** button on the directory card in `Settings -> Directory Sync`.

## Troubleshooting

### "Unauthorized" or "Forbidden" error

This typically means the API service app is not configured correctly. Verify:

1. The custom role has all three required permissions (view users, groups, and applications).
1. The resource set includes the Firezone OIDC app, All Users, and All Groups.
1. The API service app has the custom role assigned with the correct resource set.
1. All three API scopes are granted (`okta.apps.read`, `okta.groups.read`, `okta.users.read`).

### Public key not working

Ensure the public key from Firezone was pasted correctly into the Okta API service app. The key must be added before clicking **Verify Now** in Firezone.

### Users or groups not syncing

Only users and groups assigned to your Okta authentication app will sync. To add more users or groups:

1. In Okta, go to **Applications → Applications**.
1. Select your **Firezone** OIDC app.
1. Go to the **Assignments** tab and add the users or groups you want to sync.

<SupportOptions />

Commit message:

docs(portal): mention Okta API rate limits

website/src/app/kb/directory-sync/okta/readme.mdx, after:

import Alert from "@/components/DocsAlert";
import PlanBadge from "@/components/PlanBadge";
import SupportOptions from "@/components/SupportOptions";
import Image from "next/image";
import Link from "next/link";

<PlanBadge plans={["enterprise"]}>

# Sync with Okta

</PlanBadge>

On Enterprise plans, Firezone can automatically synchronize users and groups
from your Okta tenant. This eliminates the need to manually create and manage
users in Firezone. You can add multiple Okta directories to sync from different
Okta organizations.

## Overview

Users and groups assigned to your Okta authentication app will be automatically
synced to Firezone.

To enable directory sync, you'll create an API service app in Okta that allows
Firezone to connect to the Okta APIs with read-only access to users, groups, and
applications.

<Alert color="info">
  **Prerequisite:** Before proceeding, you must have completed [Okta
  authentication setup](/kb/authenticate/okta). Directory sync requires an
  existing Okta authentication provider to function.
</Alert>

## Setup

<Alert color="info">
  **Note on API rate limits:** Firezone intelligently throttles API requests to
  stay within the rate limit you configure for your service app. In the
  **Application Rate Limits** tab of your Okta service app, you can set a
  percentage of your org's total rate limit capacity. We recommend starting with
  5-10% and increasing this for very large directories or if syncs are taking
  too long to complete.
</Alert>

### Step 1: Create a custom role in Okta

To ensure Firezone has only the minimum required permissions, you'll create a
custom role in Okta with read-only access to users, groups, and a specific set
of applications.

#### Create a Resource Set

First, create a Resource Set that defines which Okta resources the Firezone API
service app can access.

In your Okta admin portal, go to **Security → Administrators**, select the
**Resources** tab and click **Create new resource set**.

<Link href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/resources-tab.png" target="_blank">
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/resources-tab.png"
    alt="Okta Resource Set"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

Configure the Resource Set as follows:

- **Name**: `Firezone Resources`
- **Description**: `Resources for Firezone Directory Sync`
- **Resources**:
  - **Applications** → `Firezone OIDC app`
  - **Users** → `All Users`
  - **Groups** → `All Groups`

Click **Create**.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/resource-set-configuration.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/resource-set-configuration.png"
    alt="Okta Resource Set Configuration"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

#### Create a Custom Role

Now create a custom role that will be assigned to the Firezone API service app.

In the **Administrators** page, select the **Roles** tab and click **Create new
role**.

Configure the role as follows:

- **Role name**: `Firezone Sync Read Only`
- **Role description**: `Read-only access for Firezone directory sync`

Under **Permissions**, add the following:

- **View users and their details**
- **View groups and their details**
- **View applications and their details**

Click **Save role**.

<Link href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/create-new-role.png" target="_blank">
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/create-new-role.png"
    alt="Okta create new role"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

### Step 2: Start the Directory Sync setup in Firezone

In a new browser tab, open your Firezone admin portal, and go to **Settings →
Directory Sync**.

Click the **Add Directory** button and choose **Okta**.

You should now see a setup form. Click the **Generate Keypair** button to create
a public/private key pair that will be used for authentication during directory
sync.

Keep this page open as you'll need the public key and other values in the next
step.

### Step 3: Create an API service app in Okta

In your Okta admin portal, go to **Applications → Applications** and click
**Create App Integration**.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/create-app-integration.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/create-app-integration.png"
    alt="Okta create app integration"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

In the modal that appears, select **API Services** and click **Next**.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/create-app-integration-modal.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/create-app-integration-modal.png"
    alt="Okta create new role"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

Give the app a descriptive name such as **Firezone Directory Sync**.

Click **Save** to create the application.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-name.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-name.png"
    alt="Okta name new app integration"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

#### Configure client authentication

Once the app is created, you'll need to configure its authentication method.

On the **General** tab, click **Edit** in the **Client Credentials** section.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-general-tab.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-general-tab.png"
    alt="Okta app integration general tab"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

Select **Public key / Private key** for the **Client authentication** method.

Under the **PUBLIC KEYS** section, click **Add key**.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-general-edit.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-general-edit.png"
    alt="Okta app integration general tab edit"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

In the modal that appears, paste the public key from your Firezone setup form
and click **Done**.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/add-public-key-modal.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/add-public-key-modal.png"
    alt="Okta add public key"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

Click **Save** to save your changes.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-with-pub-key.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-with-pub-key.png"
    alt="Okta new app integration save"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

#### Grant API scopes

Navigate to the **Okta API Scopes** tab and grant the following scopes:

- **okta.apps.read**
- **okta.groups.read**
- **okta.users.read**

These scopes provide read-only access to applications, groups, and users.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-api-scopes.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-api-scopes.png"
    alt="Okta new app integration API scopes"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

#### Assign the custom role

Navigate to the **Admin roles** tab and click **Edit Assignments**.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-admin-roles.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-admin-roles.png"
    alt="Okta new app integration assign role"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

Configure the role assignment as follows:

- **Role**: Select **Firezone Sync Read Only** (the custom role you created in
  Step 1)
- **Resource set**: Select **Firezone Resources** (the resource set you created
  in Step 1)

Click **Save Changes**.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-role-assignment.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/directory-sync/okta/new-app-integration-role-assignment.png"
    alt="Okta new app integration assign role"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

The Okta configuration is now complete.

### Step 4: Complete the Firezone setup

Return to the Firezone Directory Sync setup form and fill in the following
values from your Okta environment:

- **Okta Domain**: Click your username in the upper right corner of the Okta
  dashboard to find your Okta domain (e.g., `your-company.okta.com`)
- **Client ID**: Found on the **General** tab of your Firezone Directory Sync
  API service app in Okta

Once all fields are filled out, click **Verify Now**.

Firezone will attempt to connect to Okta and verify the configuration. If
successful, you'll see a confirmation message and can click **Create** to
complete the setup.

<Alert color="success">

**Directory Sync is now active!**

Users and groups assigned to your Okta authentication app will automatically
sync to Firezone. You no longer need to manually create users in the Firezone
portal.

</Alert>

## Sync timing

Directory sync runs automatically every 2 hours. To trigger a sync immediately,
click the **Sync Now** button on the directory card in
`Settings -> Directory Sync`.

## Troubleshooting

### "Unauthorized" or "Forbidden" error

This typically means the API service app is not configured correctly. Verify:

1. The custom role has all three required permissions (view users, groups, and
   applications).
1. The resource set includes the Firezone OIDC app, All Users, and All Groups.
1. The API service app has the custom role assigned with the correct resource
   set.
1. All three API scopes are granted (`okta.apps.read`, `okta.groups.read`,
   `okta.users.read`).

### Public key not working

Ensure the public key from Firezone was pasted correctly into the Okta API
service app. The key must be added before clicking **Verify Now** in Firezone.

### Users or groups not syncing

Only users and groups assigned to your Okta authentication app will sync. To add
more users or groups:

1. In Okta, go to **Applications → Applications**.
1. Select your **Firezone** OIDC app.
1. Go to the **Assignments** tab and add the users or groups you want to sync.

<SupportOptions />
