docs/docs/authenticate/okta.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Okta
nav_order: 2
parent: Authenticate
description: >
  This page contains instructions on setting up Okta
  as the SSO provider for Firezone.
---
---

Firezone supports Single Sign-On (SSO) using Okta
through the generic OIDC connector. This guide will walk you through how to
obtain the following config settings required for the integration:

1. `discovery_document_uri`: This URL returns a JSON with information to
construct a request to the OpenID server.
1. `client_id`: The client ID of the application.
1. `client_secret`: The client secret of the application.
1. `redirect_uri`: Instructs OIDC provider where the response to the
request should be sent.
1. `response_type`: Set to `code`.
1. `scope`: The permissions required by Firezone.
This should be set to `openid email profile`.
1. `label`: The button label text that shows up on your Firezone login screen.

![Firezone Okta SSO Login](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156855886-5a4a0da7-065c-4ec1-af33-583dff4dbb72.gif){:width="600"}

_Note: Previously, Firezone used pre-configured Oauth2 providers. We've moved to
OIDC based authentication, which allows for any OpenID Connect provider
(Google, Okta, Dex) to be used for authetication._

To set up SSO, follow the steps below:

## Step 1 - Create Okta App Integration

_This section of the guide is based on
[Okta's documentation](https://help.okta.com/en/prod/Content/Topics/Apps/Apps_App_Integration_Wizard_OIDC.htm)._

In the Admin Console, go to `Applications > Applications` and click `Create App Integration`.
Set `Sign-in method` to `OICD - OpenID Connect` and `Application type` to `Web application`.

![Okta Create Options](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/168918378-0dd9f705-2544-412d-bbbe-4a7cd9253907.png){:width="800"}

On the following screen, configure the following settings:

1. **App Name**: `Firezone`
1. **App logo**:
[Firezone logo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/155907625-a4f6c8c2-3952-488d-b244-3c37400846cf.png)
(save link as).
1. **Sign-in redirect URIs**: Append `/auth/oidc/okta/callback` to your Firezone
base URL. For example, if your Firezone instance is available at
`https://firezone.example.com`, then you would enter
`https://firezone.example.com/auth/oidc/okta/callback` here. The redirect URI is
where Okta will redirect the user's browser after successful authentication.
Firezone will receive this callback, initiate the user's session, and redirect
the user's browser to the appropriate page depending on the user's role.
1. **Assignments**:
Limit to the groups you wish to provide access to your Firezone instance.

![Okta Settings](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/168918397-0d948838-d6f0-442d-9ef9-035108e2a1f8.png){:width="800"}

Once settings are saved, you will be given a Client ID, Client Secret, and Okta Domain.
These 3 values will be used in Step 2 to configure Firezone.

![Okta credentials](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/168918391-cfdc7c8c-6b58-4780-8588-3d3b8c51bce1.png){:width="800"}

## Integrate With Firezone

Edit `/etc/firezone/firezone.rb` to include the options below. Your `discovery_document_url`
will be `/.well-known/openid-configuration` appended to the end of your `okta_domain`.

```ruby
# Using Okta as the SSO identity provider
default['firezone']['authentication']['oidc'] = {
  okta: {
    discovery_document_uri: "https://{okta_domain}/.well-known/openid-configuration",
    client_id: "CLIENT_ID",
    client_secret: "CLIENT_SECRET",
    redirect_uri: "https://firezone.example.com/auth/oidc/okta/callback",
    response_type: "code",
    scope: "openid email profile",
    label: "Okta"
  }
}
```

Run `firezone-ctl reconfigure`and `firezone-ctl restart` to update the application.
You should now see a `Sign in with Okta` button at the root Firezone URL.

Commit message:

changing references of base URL to external URL

docs/docs/authenticate/okta.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Okta
nav_order: 2
parent: Authenticate
description: >
  This page contains instructions on setting up Okta
  as the SSO provider for Firezone.
---
---

Firezone supports Single Sign-On (SSO) using Okta
through the generic OIDC connector. This guide will walk you through how to
obtain the following config settings required for the integration:

1. `discovery_document_uri`: This URL returns a JSON with information to
construct a request to the OpenID server.
1. `client_id`: The client ID of the application.
1. `client_secret`: The client secret of the application.
1. `redirect_uri`: Instructs OIDC provider where to redirect after authentication.
This should be your Firezone `EXTERNAL_URL + /auth/oidc/<provider_key>/callback/`
(e.g. `https://firezone.example.com/auth/oidc/okta/callback/`).
1. `response_type`: Set to `code`.
1. `scope`: [OIDC scopes](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-basic-1_0.html#Scopes)
to obtain from your OIDC provider. This should be set to `openid email profile`
to provide Firezone with the user's email in the returned claims.
1. `label`: The button label text that shows up on your Firezone login screen.

![Firezone Okta SSO Login](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156855886-5a4a0da7-065c-4ec1-af33-583dff4dbb72.gif){:width="600"}

_Note: Previously, Firezone used pre-configured Oauth2 providers. We've moved to
OIDC based authentication, which allows for any OpenID Connect provider
(Google, Okta, Dex) to be used for authetication._

To set up SSO, follow the steps below:

## Step 1 - Create Okta App Integration

_This section of the guide is based on
[Okta's documentation](https://help.okta.com/en/prod/Content/Topics/Apps/Apps_App_Integration_Wizard_OIDC.htm)._

In the Admin Console, go to `Applications > Applications` and click `Create App Integration`.
Set `Sign-in method` to `OICD - OpenID Connect` and `Application type` to `Web application`.

![Okta Create Options](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/168918378-0dd9f705-2544-412d-bbbe-4a7cd9253907.png){:width="800"}

On the following screen, configure the following settings:

1. **App Name**: `Firezone`
1. **App logo**:
[Firezone logo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/155907625-a4f6c8c2-3952-488d-b244-3c37400846cf.png)
(save link as).
1. **Sign-in redirect URIs**: Add your Firezone `EXTERNAL_URL + /auth/oidc/okta/callback/`
(e.g. `https://firezone.example.com/auth/oidc/okta/callback/`) as an entry to
Authorized redirect URIs.
1. **Assignments**:
Limit to the groups you wish to provide access to your Firezone instance.

![Okta Settings](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/168918397-0d948838-d6f0-442d-9ef9-035108e2a1f8.png){:width="800"}

Once settings are saved, you will be given a Client ID, Client Secret, and Okta Domain.
These 3 values will be used in Step 2 to configure Firezone.

![Okta credentials](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/168918391-cfdc7c8c-6b58-4780-8588-3d3b8c51bce1.png){:width="800"}

## Integrate With Firezone

Edit `/etc/firezone/firezone.rb` to include the options below. Your `discovery_document_url`
will be `/.well-known/openid-configuration` appended to the end of your `okta_domain`.

```ruby
# Using Okta as the SSO identity provider
default['firezone']['authentication']['oidc'] = {
  okta: {
    discovery_document_uri: "https://{okta_domain}/.well-known/openid-configuration",
    client_id: "CLIENT_ID",
    client_secret: "CLIENT_SECRET",
    redirect_uri: "https://firezone.example.com/auth/oidc/okta/callback",
    response_type: "code",
    scope: "openid email profile",
    label: "Okta"
  }
}
```

Run `firezone-ctl reconfigure`and `firezone-ctl restart` to update the application.
You should now see a `Sign in with Okta` button at the root Firezone URL.
