docs/docs/deploy/advanced/build-from-source.mdx, before:

---
title: Build From Source
sidebar_position: 1
---

Building from source allows you to bring Firezone to unsupported platforms.

:::warning
You're entering unsupported territory. This is not for the faint of heart and
will require being able to figure out snags you may hit on your own.

If you're very comfortable with your environment of choice, then read on to
learn how to build Firezone from source.
:::

:::info
You will need to setup your own service management for Firezone (eg. `runit`,
`systemd`, shell scripts). You will also need to install and configure your
own database (eg. `postgres`) and reverse proxy (eg. `caddy`, `nginx`).

Info about database configuration is [here](../external-database/#configure-firezone-to-connect),
and info about configuring a reverse proxy is [here](../reverse-proxy/#proxy-requirements).
:::

# Prerequisites

:::info
Check the `.tool-versions` file [here](https://github.com/firezone/firezone/blob/master/.tool-versions)
for the versions we use for Erlang, Elixir, and Node. If your system supports it,
you can install these using [asdf-vm](https://asdf-vm.com/guide/getting-started.html)
using a similar `.tool-versions` of your own to match versions. Your system's package
manager may have them as well.
:::

**These must be available in the user's path that runs Firezone.**

- [Erlang/OTP](https://www.erlang.org)
- [Elixir](https://elixir-lang.org)
- [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org)

# Steps

From your terminal, run these steps to build from the checked out source:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/firezone/firezone
cd firezone
mix local.rebar --force
mix local.hex --force
mix deps.get
mix release
```

After the release build finishes, you should have a shiny new Firezone instance at
`<CURRENT_DIR>/_build/dev/rel/firezone`. In the `bin` folder, the `firezone` binary
can be used to start up Firezone. If you run it without any arguments you should see
a list of available commands like this:

```bash
Usage: firezone COMMAND [ARGS]

The known commands are:

    start          Starts the system
    start_iex      Starts the system with IEx attached
    daemon         Starts the system as a daemon
    daemon_iex     Starts the system as a daemon with IEx attached
    eval "EXPR"    Executes the given expression on a new, non-booted system
    rpc "EXPR"     Executes the given expression remotely on the running system
    remote         Connects to the running system via a remote shell
    restart        Restarts the running system via a remote command
    stop           Stops the running system via a remote command
    pid            Prints the operating system PID of the running system via a remote command
    version        Prints the release name and version to be booted
```

Now all you need are the database and reverse proxy that you've hopefully setup.
Once that's done, you can use `firezone start` to start Firezone and run
`create-or-reset-admin` (in the same `bin` dir) to create the admin user and use
it to log into Firezone from a web browser to start setting up your brand new
custom instance that you built by hand with a little bit of elbow grease :)

:::info
As mentioned at the top, it's recommended to use some sort of service management
to start and stop Firezone easily without having to manually do it using the
`firezone` binary directly. But the choice is yours, since you're in control!
:::

Commit message:

Apply suggestions from code review
Co-authored-by: Jamil <jamilbk@users.noreply.github.com>
Signed-off-by: Andrew Rousset <andrew@firezone.dev>

docs/docs/deploy/advanced/build-from-source.mdx, after:

---
title: Build From Source
sidebar_position: 1
---

Building from source allows you to bring Firezone to unsupported platforms.

:::warning
You're entering unsupported territory. This is not for the faint of heart and
will require being able to figure out snags you may hit on your own.

If you're very comfortable with your environment of choice, then read on to
learn how to build Firezone from source.
:::

:::info
You will need to setup your own service management for Firezone (eg. `runit`,
`systemd`, shell scripts). You will also need to install and configure your
own database (eg. `postgres`) and reverse proxy (eg. `caddy`, `nginx`).

Info about database configuration is [here](../external-database/#configure-firezone-to-connect),
and info about configuring a reverse proxy is [here](../reverse-proxy/#proxy-requirements).
:::

# Prerequisites

:::info
Check the `.tool-versions` file [here](https://github.com/firezone/firezone/blob/master/.tool-versions)
for the versions we use for Erlang, Elixir, and Node. If your system supports it,
you can install these using [asdf-vm](https://asdf-vm.com/guide/getting-started.html)
using a similar `.tool-versions` of your own to match versions. Your system's package
manager may have them as well.
:::

**These must be available in the user's path that runs Firezone.**

- [Erlang/OTP](https://www.erlang.org)
- [Elixir](https://elixir-lang.org)
- [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org)

# Steps

From your terminal, run these steps to build Firezone:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/firezone/firezone
cd firezone
mix local.rebar --force
mix local.hex --force
MIX_ENV=prod mix deps.get
MIX_ENV=prod mix release
```

After the release build finishes, you should have a shiny new Firezone instance at
`<CURRENT_DIR>/_build/dev/rel/firezone`. In the `bin` folder, the `firezone` binary
can be used to start up Firezone. If you run it without any arguments you should see
a list of available commands like this:

```bash
Usage: firezone COMMAND [ARGS]

The known commands are:

    start          Starts the system
    start_iex      Starts the system with IEx attached
    daemon         Starts the system as a daemon
    daemon_iex     Starts the system as a daemon with IEx attached
    eval "EXPR"    Executes the given expression on a new, non-booted system
    rpc "EXPR"     Executes the given expression remotely on the running system
    remote         Connects to the running system via a remote shell
    restart        Restarts the running system via a remote command
    stop           Stops the running system via a remote command
    pid            Prints the operating system PID of the running system via a remote command
    version        Prints the release name and version to be booted
```
Most deployment-related configuration is handled with environment variables. You'll probably want to at least set variables related to your reverse proxy and database. See the [ENV var reference](/reference/env-vars/) for an exhaustive list.

Now all you need are the database and reverse proxy that you've previously set up.
Once that's done, you can use `firezone start` to start Firezone and run
`create-or-reset-admin` (in the same `bin` dir) to create the admin user and use
it to log into Firezone from a web browser to start setting up your brand new
custom instance that you built by hand with a little bit of elbow grease :)

:::info
As mentioned at the top, it's recommended to use some sort of service management
to start and stop Firezone easily without having to manually do it using the
`firezone` binary directly. But the choice is yours, since you're in control!
:::
