website/src/app/kb/client-apps/linux-gui-client/readme.mdx, before:

import SupportOptions from "@/components/SupportOptions";
import Alert from "@/components/DocsAlert";

# Linux GUI Client

The Linux GUI Client is designed for Linux desktop environments where a user is
present to authenticate with your identity provider interactively.

<Alert color="info">
  If you're looking for a headless Client suitable for server or container-based
  installs, see the [Linux headless
  Client](/kb/client-apps/linux-headless-client) user guide instead.
</Alert>

## Prerequisites

- **x86-64** or **ARM64** CPU architecture
- Ubuntu **22.04** or higher, or CentOS 10 or higher. Other distributions may
  work, but are not officially supported.
- **systemd-resolved**. Ubuntu already uses this by default.

## Installation (Ubuntu)

Download the `.deb` package from our [changelog page](/changelog), or from the
direct link below:

- [Download the Linux GUI `.deb` for `x86-64`](/dl/firezone-client-gui-linux/latest/x86_64)
- [Download the Linux GUI `.deb` for `ARM64`](/dl/firezone-client-gui-linux/latest/aarch64)

Run these commands:

```bash
# Install the package
# The leading `./` is needed so `apt-get` can tell this is a local file
sudo apt-get install ./firezone-client-gui-linux_<VERSION>_<ARCH>.deb

# Add yourself to the `firezone-client` group so you can use the tunnel service
sudo usermod -aG firezone-client "$USER"

# Reboot to finish adding yourself to the group
reboot
```

To auto-start the Client when you log in, run
`firezone-client-gui debug set-autostart true`

## Installation (CentOS 10)

### Step 1: Install repositories

These are required for both GNOME extensions and the WebKit and other
dependencies of the Firezone Client.

1. `sudo dnf config-manager --set-enabled crb`
1. `sudo dnf install epel-release`

### Step 2: Install system tray

GNOME Shell in CentOS does not have a system tray by default. Use these steps to
install it. For other desktops like xfce4 or KDE, the system tray may already
work properly.

1. `sudo dnf install gnome-shell-extension-appindicator`
1. Log out and back in to restart GNOME
1. `gnome-extensions enable appindicatorsupport@rgcjonas.gmail.com`
1. Optionally: To manage GNOME extensions via a GUI, install
   `gnome-extensions-app`

### Step 3: Install Firezone

1. Download the RPM:
   [Download the latest Linux GUI `.rpm` from GitHub Releases](https://www.github.com/firezone/firezone/releases)
1. `sudo dnf install systemd-resolved` (Installing it explicitly prevents it
   from being auto-removed if Firezone is removed)
1. `sudo dnf install ./firezone-client-gui-*.rpm`
1. `sudo usermod -aG firezone-client $USER`
1. Reboot to finish adding yourself to the group. Logging out and back in is not
   enough. This also starts the new services for us.
1. `sudo cp /etc/resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf.before-firezone` Back up your
   resolv.conf file. If anything goes wrong with your DNS, you can copy this
   back into place.
1. `sudo ln --force --symbolic /run/systemd/resolve/stub-resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf`
   This puts `systemd-resolved`, and therefore Firezone, in control of the
   system's DNS. `systemd-resolved` does not do this automatically, since it's
   under `/etc`.
1. Run `Firezone` from the app menu.

## Usage

### Signing in

1. Start the GUI by running `Firezone` from your desktop environment's
   application menu or from an interactive shell.
1. At the Welcome screen, click `Sign in`. This will open the Firezone sign-in
   page in your default web browser.
1. Sign in using your account slug and identity provider
1. On the first run, check `Always allow` to allow your web browser to sign in
   to Firezone, then click `Open` or `Open link`
1. Unlock your desktop's keyring, or create one if needed. Most desktops,
   including GNOME, encrypt the keyring with your login password, so your
   Firezone token is encrypted at rest.
1. When you see the `Firezone connected` notification, Firezone is running.

The Welcome screen only appears during your first sign-in. After that, you can
click on the Firezone icon in the system tray to open the tray menu and sign in.

### Accessing a Resource

When Firezone is signed in, web browsers and other programs will automatically
use it to securely connect to Resources.

To copy-paste the address of a Resource:

1. Click on the Firezone tray icon to open the menu.
1. Open a Resource's submenu and click on its address to copy it.
1. Paste the address into your browser's URL bar and press Enter.

### Quitting

1. Click on the Firezone tray icon to open the menu.
1. Click `Disconnect and Quit` or `Quit`.

When Firezone is not running, you can't access private Resources, and the
computer will use its normal DNS and Internet behavior.

If you were signed in, then you will still be signed in the next time you start
Firezone.

### Signing out

1. Click on the Firezone tray icon to open the menu.
1. Click `Sign out`.

When you're signed out, you can't access private Resources, and the computer
will use its normal DNS and Internet behavior.

## Upgrading

1. Download the latest `.deb` or `.rpm` installer package from
   [GitHub Releases](https://www.github.com/firezone/firezone/releases).
1. Quit `Firezone Client` if it's running.
1. Install the new package:
   `sudo apt-get install ./firezone-client-gui-linux_<VERSION>_<ARCH>.(deb|rpm)`
1. Restart `Firezone Client`.

## Diagnostic logs

Firezone writes log files to disk. These logs stay on your computer and are not
transmitted anywhere. If you find a bug, you can send us a `.zip` archive of
your logs to help us fix the bug.

To export or clear your logs:

1. Click on the Firezone tray icon.
1. Click `Settings`.
1. Click `Diagnostic Logs`.
1. Click `Export Logs` or `Clear Log Directory`.

The Tunnel service (`firezone-client-tunnel.service`) also logs to stdout which
is captured by systemd and sent to journald. To view the logs of the Tunnel
service, use:

```bash
journalctl --pager-end --follow --unit firezone-client-tunnel.service
```

The GUI client logs to journald directly as well with the syslog identifier
`firezone-client-gui`. To view the logs via `journalctl`, use:

```bash
journalctl --pager-end --follow --identifier firezone-client-gui
```

## Uninstalling

1. Remove the auto-start link: `firezone-client-gui debug set-autostart false`
1. Quit `Firezone Client` if it's running.
1. Remove the package: `sudo apt-get remove firezone-client-gui`

## Troubleshooting

### Check if `systemd-resolved` is enabled

```bash
systemctl status systemd-resolved
stat /etc/resolv.conf
```

`systemctl` should show that `systemd-resolved` is `enabled` and
`active (running)`.

`stat` should show that `resolv.conf` is a symlink to `stub-resolv.conf`:
`File: /etc/resolv.conf -> ../run/systemd/resolve/stub-resolv.conf`

If `systemd-resolved` is not running, or the symlink is not set up, Firezone may
not be able to start, or may not be able to access DNS resources.

### Check if Firezone is controlling DNS

```bash
resolvectl dns
```

Firezone Split DNS:

```text
Global:
Link 2 (enp0s6): 10.0.2.3 fec0::3
Link 3 (tun-firezone): 100.100.111.1 fd00:2021:1111:8000:100:100:111:0
```

Normal system DNS:

```text
Global:
Link 2 (enp0s6): 10.0.2.3 fec0::3
```

```bash
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```

Normal `resolv.conf` if `systemd-resolved` is installed, whether or not Firezone
is running:

```text
# This file is managed by man:systemd-resolved(8). Do not edit.
...
```

Firezone `resolv.conf` if you set `FIREZONE_DNS_CONTROL=etc-resolv-conf`:

```text
# BEGIN Firezone DNS configuration
...
```

### Revert Firezone DNS control

By default, the Firezone GUI Client for Linux controls DNS using
`systemd-resolved`, which will automatically revert DNS to the system defaults
when Firezone is disconnected.

If the network interface stays up and DNS does not revert, you can try
restarting the tunnel service. Quit the Firezone GUI, then run:

```bash
sudo systemctl restart firezone-client-tunnel
```

### Viewing logs

The Firezone Client is split into 2 main processes: A Tunnel service which runs
the tunnel, and a GUI which allows the user to control Firezone.

- Tunnel service logs are stored at `/var/log/dev.firezone.client/`
- GUI logs are stored at `$HOME/.cache/dev.firezone.client/data/logs/`, where
  `$HOME` is, e.g. `/home/username/`

## Known issues

- The update checker notification does not work for RPM installations
  [#7646](https://github.com/firezone/firezone/issues/7646)
- If you update Firezone while the GUI is running, you must manually restart the
  GUI [#5790](https://github.com/firezone/firezone/issues/5952)
- If a search domain is applied, the system search domains set manually or by
  DHCP are ignored. [#8430](https://github.com/firezone/firezone/issues/8430).

<SupportOptions />

Commit message:

feat(website): reference APT repository in Ubuntu installation (#10784)
Instead of requiring users to download the Debian archive themselves, we
point them our APT repository. This will automatically update their
Client whenever they run `apt upgrade`.

---------

Co-authored-by: Mariusz Klochowicz <mariusz@klochowicz.com>
Co-authored-by: Jamil <jamilbk@users.noreply.github.com>

website/src/app/kb/client-apps/linux-gui-client/readme.mdx, after:

import SupportOptions from "@/components/SupportOptions";
import Alert from "@/components/DocsAlert";

# Linux GUI Client

The Linux GUI Client is designed for Linux desktop environments where a user is
present to authenticate with your identity provider interactively.

<Alert color="info">
  If you're looking for a headless Client suitable for server or container-based
  installs, see the [Linux headless
  Client](/kb/client-apps/linux-headless-client) user guide instead.
</Alert>

## Prerequisites

- **x86-64** or **ARM64** CPU architecture
- Ubuntu **22.04** or higher, or CentOS 10 or higher. Other distributions may
  work, but are not officially supported.
- **systemd-resolved**. Ubuntu already uses this by default.

## Installation (Ubuntu)

Add the Firezone APT repository:

```bash
sudo mkdir --parents /etc/apt/keyrings
wget -qO- https://artifacts.firezone.dev/apt/key.gpg | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /etc/apt/keyrings/firezone.gpg
echo "deb [signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/firezone.gpg] https://artifacts.firezone.dev/apt/ stable main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/firezone.list
```

Install the Client:

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install firezone-client-gui
```

To finish the setup, reboot your machine. This is necessary to fully reflect
group membership changes. The GUI client cannot function until the current user
is in the `firezone-client` group.

## Installation (CentOS 10)

### Step 1: Install repositories

These are required for both GNOME extensions and the WebKit and other
dependencies of the Firezone Client.

1. `sudo dnf config-manager --set-enabled crb`
1. `sudo dnf install epel-release`

### Step 2: Install system tray

GNOME Shell in CentOS does not have a system tray by default. Use these steps to
install it. For other desktops like xfce4 or KDE, the system tray may already
work properly.

1. `sudo dnf install gnome-shell-extension-appindicator`
1. Log out and back in to restart GNOME
1. `gnome-extensions enable appindicatorsupport@rgcjonas.gmail.com`
1. Optionally: To manage GNOME extensions via a GUI, install
   `gnome-extensions-app`

### Step 3: Install Firezone

1. Download the RPM:
   [Download the latest Linux GUI `.rpm` from GitHub Releases](https://www.github.com/firezone/firezone/releases)
1. `sudo dnf install systemd-resolved` (Installing it explicitly prevents it
   from being auto-removed if Firezone is removed)
1. `sudo dnf install ./firezone-client-gui-*.rpm`
1. `sudo usermod -aG firezone-client $USER`
1. Reboot to finish adding yourself to the group. Logging out and back in is not
   enough. This also starts the new services for us.
1. `sudo cp /etc/resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf.before-firezone` Back up your
   resolv.conf file. If anything goes wrong with your DNS, you can copy this
   back into place.
1. `sudo ln --force --symbolic /run/systemd/resolve/stub-resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf`
   This puts `systemd-resolved`, and therefore Firezone, in control of the
   system's DNS. `systemd-resolved` does not do this automatically, since it's
   under `/etc`.
1. Run `Firezone` from the app menu.

## Usage

### Signing in

1. Start the GUI by running `Firezone` from your desktop environment's
   application menu or from an interactive shell.
1. At the Welcome screen, click `Sign in`. This will open the Firezone sign-in
   page in your default web browser.
1. Sign in using your account slug and identity provider
1. On the first run, check `Always allow` to allow your web browser to sign in
   to Firezone, then click `Open` or `Open link`
1. Unlock your desktop's keyring, or create one if needed. Most desktops,
   including GNOME, encrypt the keyring with your login password, so your
   Firezone token is encrypted at rest.
1. When you see the `Firezone connected` notification, Firezone is running.

The Welcome screen only appears during your first sign-in. After that, you can
click on the Firezone icon in the system tray to open the tray menu and sign in.

### Accessing a Resource

When Firezone is signed in, web browsers and other programs will automatically
use it to securely connect to Resources.

To copy-paste the address of a Resource:

1. Click on the Firezone tray icon to open the menu.
1. Open a Resource's submenu and click on its address to copy it.
1. Paste the address into your browser's URL bar and press Enter.

### Quitting

1. Click on the Firezone tray icon to open the menu.
1. Click `Disconnect and Quit` or `Quit`.

When Firezone is not running, you can't access private Resources, and the
computer will use its normal DNS and Internet behavior.

If you were signed in, then you will still be signed in the next time you start
Firezone.

### Signing out

1. Click on the Firezone tray icon to open the menu.
1. Click `Sign out`.

When you're signed out, you can't access private Resources, and the computer
will use its normal DNS and Internet behavior.

## Upgrading

If you installed the Client via `apt` you can upgrade it like any other package:

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade firezone-client-gui
```

If you installed the package manually, follow these upgrade steps:

1. Download the latest `.deb` or `.rpm` installer package from
   [GitHub Releases](https://www.github.com/firezone/firezone/releases).
1. Quit `Firezone Client` if it's running.
1. Install the new package:
   `sudo apt-get install ./firezone-client-gui-linux_<VERSION>_<ARCH>.(deb|rpm)`
1. Restart `Firezone Client`.

## Diagnostic logs

Firezone writes log files to disk. These logs stay on your computer and are not
transmitted anywhere. If you find a bug, you can send us a `.zip` archive of
your logs to help us fix the bug.

To export or clear your logs:

1. Click on the Firezone tray icon.
1. Click `Settings`.
1. Click `Diagnostic Logs`.
1. Click `Export Logs` or `Clear Log Directory`.

The Tunnel service (`firezone-client-tunnel.service`) also logs to stdout which
is captured by systemd and sent to journald. To view the logs of the Tunnel
service, use:

```bash
journalctl --pager-end --follow --unit firezone-client-tunnel.service
```

The GUI client logs to journald directly as well with the syslog identifier
`firezone-client-gui`. To view the logs via `journalctl`, use:

```bash
journalctl --pager-end --follow --identifier firezone-client-gui
```

## Uninstalling

1. Remove the auto-start link: `firezone-client-gui debug set-autostart false`
1. Quit `Firezone Client` if it's running.
1. Remove the package: `sudo apt-get remove firezone-client-gui`

## Troubleshooting

### Check if `systemd-resolved` is enabled

```bash
systemctl status systemd-resolved
stat /etc/resolv.conf
```

`systemctl` should show that `systemd-resolved` is `enabled` and
`active (running)`.

`stat` should show that `resolv.conf` is a symlink to `stub-resolv.conf`:
`File: /etc/resolv.conf -> ../run/systemd/resolve/stub-resolv.conf`

If `systemd-resolved` is not running, or the symlink is not set up, Firezone may
not be able to start, or may not be able to access DNS resources.

### Check if Firezone is controlling DNS

```bash
resolvectl dns
```

Firezone Split DNS:

```text
Global:
Link 2 (enp0s6): 10.0.2.3 fec0::3
Link 3 (tun-firezone): 100.100.111.1 fd00:2021:1111:8000:100:100:111:0
```

Normal system DNS:

```text
Global:
Link 2 (enp0s6): 10.0.2.3 fec0::3
```

```bash
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```

Normal `resolv.conf` if `systemd-resolved` is installed, whether or not Firezone
is running:

```text
# This file is managed by man:systemd-resolved(8). Do not edit.
...
```

Firezone `resolv.conf` if you set `FIREZONE_DNS_CONTROL=etc-resolv-conf`:

```text
# BEGIN Firezone DNS configuration
...
```

### Revert Firezone DNS control

By default, the Firezone GUI Client for Linux controls DNS using
`systemd-resolved`, which will automatically revert DNS to the system defaults
when Firezone is disconnected.

If the network interface stays up and DNS does not revert, you can try
restarting the tunnel service. Quit the Firezone GUI, then run:

```bash
sudo systemctl restart firezone-client-tunnel
```

### Viewing logs

The Firezone Client is split into 2 main processes: A Tunnel service which runs
the tunnel, and a GUI which allows the user to control Firezone.

- Tunnel service logs are stored at `/var/log/dev.firezone.client/`
- GUI logs are stored at `$HOME/.cache/dev.firezone.client/data/logs/`, where
  `$HOME` is, e.g. `/home/username/`

## Known issues

- The update checker notification does not work for RPM installations
  [#7646](https://github.com/firezone/firezone/issues/7646)
- If you update Firezone while the GUI is running, you must manually restart the
  GUI [#5790](https://github.com/firezone/firezone/issues/5952)
- If a search domain is applied, the system search domains set manually or by
  DHCP are ignored. [#8430](https://github.com/firezone/firezone/issues/8430).

<SupportOptions />
