docs/docs/deploy/docker/README.mdx, before:

---
title: Docker
sidebar_position: 2
---

As of 0.6.0, Docker is now the **preferred method** for
deploying Firezone. Docker offers a number of benefits over the old
[Omnibus method](../omnibus):

- **Simpler, more robust upgrades**: In most cases, simply pull the latest `firezone/firezone`
  image and restart the container.
- **Simpler configuration**: Most day-to-day configuration of Firezone can now
  be done in the web UI instead of the `/etc/firezone/firezone.rb` configuration
  file. All other configuration variables can be specified as ENV vars to the
  Firezone container.
- **Smaller footprint**: The Firezone image weighs in at a couple dozen
  megabytes versus hundreds of megabytes for the Omnibus package.
- **Portability**: Firezone now runs on any platform that supports Docker.
- **Security**: Containerization providers better security isolation than
  simply running as an unprivileged local user.

## Step 1: Prerequisites

* Ensure you're on a [supported platform](supported-platforms) with [
  docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) **version 2
  or higher** installed.
* Ensure port forwarding is enabled on your firewall.
  The default Firezone configuration requires the following ports to be open:
  * `80/tcp` (optional): For automatically issuing SSL certificates.
  * `443/tcp`: To access the web UI.
  * `51820/udp`: VPN traffic listen port.

:::caution
Before deploying Firezone in **production**, you'll need a valid DNS record
pointing to this instance. See [Prepare to Deploy](../#prepare-to-deploy)
if you haven't done this already.
:::

## Step 2: Install Server

After prerequisites are satisfied, you're ready to install the Firezone Server.

### Option 1: Automatic Install

The easiest way to deploy Firezone with Docker is the automatic install script:

```bash
bash <(curl -fsSL https://github.com/firezone/firezone/raw/master/scripts/install.sh)
```

This will ask you a few questions regarding initial configuration, then proceed
to download a sample docker-compose.yml file, configure it with your responses,
and then print instructions for accessing the Web UI.

Firezone files will be installed in `/data/firezone` by default.

### Option 2: Manual Install

If the automatic install fails, or you'd just like more control over the
installation process, follow the steps below to install manually.

1. Ensure you're on a supported platform and have a recent version of
   [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) installed.
1. Download the docker compose template to a local working directory:
  ```shell
  curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/firezone/firezone/master/docker-compose.prod.yml -o docker-compose.yml
  ```
1. Generate required secrets:
  ```shell
  docker run --rm firezone/firezone bin/gen-env > .env
  ```
1. At a minimum, change the `ADMIN_EMAIL` and `EXTERNAL_URL` variables.
   Optionally modify other secrets as needed.
1. Bring the services up: `docker compose up -d`
1. Wait about a minute for the services to boot, then create the first admin:
  ```shell
  docker compose exec firezone bin/create-or-reset-admin
  ```

You should now be able to access the Firezone web portal at the `EXTERNAL_URL`
variable you defined above.

## Step 3: Install Client Apps

Once successfully deployed, users and devices can be added to
connect to the VPN server:

* [Add Users](../../user-guides/add-users):
Add users to grant them access to your network.
* [Client Instructions](../../user-guides/client-instructions):
Instructions to establish a VPN session.

## Troubleshooting

First, check our [troubleshooting guide](../../administer/troubleshoot) to see
if your issue is covered there. If you are unable to resolve the issue:

* Ask a question in our [discussion forums](https://discourse.firez.one/) or [
  Slack channel](https://www.firezone.dev/slack)
* Report bugs or propose new features on [Github
  ](https://github.com/firezone/firezone)

## Post Setup

Congrats! You have completed the setup, but there's a lot more you can do with
Firezone:

* [Integrate your identity provider](../../authenticate/)
  for authenticating clients
* Using Firezone to
  [establish a static IP](../../user-guides/use-cases/nat-gateway)
* Create tunnels between multiple peers with
  [reverse tunnels](../../user-guides/use-cases/reverse-tunnel)
* Only route certain traffic through Firezone with
  [split tunneling](../../user-guides/use-cases/split-tunnel)

Commit message:

Add restart note (#1085)
* Update README.mdx

Signed-off-by: Jamil <jamilbk@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/docs/deploy/docker/README.mdx

Signed-off-by: Jamil <jamilbk@users.noreply.github.com>

Signed-off-by: Jamil <jamilbk@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/docs/deploy/docker/README.mdx, after:

---
title: Docker
sidebar_position: 2
---

As of 0.6.0, Docker is now the **preferred method** for
deploying Firezone. Docker offers a number of benefits over the old
[Omnibus method](../omnibus):

- **Simpler, more robust upgrades**: In most cases, simply pull the latest `firezone/firezone`
  image and restart the container.
- **Simpler configuration**: Most day-to-day configuration of Firezone can now
  be done in the web UI instead of the `/etc/firezone/firezone.rb` configuration
  file. All other configuration variables can be specified as ENV vars to the
  Firezone container.
- **Smaller footprint**: The Firezone image weighs in at a couple dozen
  megabytes versus hundreds of megabytes for the Omnibus package.
- **Portability**: Firezone now runs on any platform that supports Docker.
- **Security**: Containerization providers better security isolation than
  simply running as an unprivileged local user.

## Step 1: Prerequisites

* Ensure you're on a [supported platform](supported-platforms) with [
  docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) **version 2
  or higher** installed.
* Ensure port forwarding is enabled on your firewall.
  The default Firezone configuration requires the following ports to be open:
  * `80/tcp` (optional): For automatically issuing SSL certificates.
  * `443/tcp`: To access the web UI.
  * `51820/udp`: VPN traffic listen port.

:::caution
Before deploying Firezone in **production**, you'll need a valid DNS record
pointing to this instance. See [Prepare to Deploy](../#prepare-to-deploy)
if you haven't done this already.
:::

## Step 2: Install Server

After prerequisites are satisfied, you're ready to install the Firezone Server.

### Option 1: Automatic Install

The easiest way to deploy Firezone with Docker is the automatic install script:

```bash
bash <(curl -fsSL https://github.com/firezone/firezone/raw/master/scripts/install.sh)
```

This will ask you a few questions regarding initial configuration, then proceed
to download a sample docker-compose.yml file, configure it with your responses,
and then print instructions for accessing the Web UI.

Firezone files will be installed in `/data/firezone` by default.

### Option 2: Manual Install

If the automatic install fails, or you'd just like more control over the
installation process, follow the steps below to install manually.

1. Ensure you're on a supported platform and have a recent version of
   [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) installed.
1. Download the docker compose template to a local working directory:
  ```shell
  curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/firezone/firezone/master/docker-compose.prod.yml -o docker-compose.yml
  ```
1. Generate required secrets:
  ```shell
  docker run --rm firezone/firezone bin/gen-env > .env
  ```
1. At a minimum, change the `ADMIN_EMAIL` and `EXTERNAL_URL` variables.
   Optionally modify other secrets as needed.
1. Bring the services up: `docker compose up -d`
1. Wait about a minute for the services to boot, then create the first admin:
  ```shell
  docker compose exec firezone bin/create-or-reset-admin
  ```

You should now be able to access the Firezone web portal at the `EXTERNAL_URL`
variable you defined above.

## Step 3: Enable on Boot (optional)

If you'd like Firezone to start automatically on boot, first ensure Docker is enabled at startup:

```
sudo systemctl enable docker
```

Then, make sure your Firezone services have the `restart: always` or `restart: unless-stopped` option
specified in the `docker-compose.yml` file. This is the default used in the docker-compose.prod.yml
production template file.

## Step 4: Install Client Apps

Once successfully deployed, users and devices can be added to
connect to the VPN server:

* [Add Users](../../user-guides/add-users):
Add users to grant them access to your network.
* [Client Instructions](../../user-guides/client-instructions):
Instructions to establish a VPN session.

## Troubleshooting

First, check our [troubleshooting guide](../../administer/troubleshoot) to see
if your issue is covered there. If you are unable to resolve the issue:

* Ask a question in our [discussion forums](https://discourse.firez.one/) or [
  Slack channel](https://www.firezone.dev/slack)
* Report bugs or propose new features on [Github
  ](https://github.com/firezone/firezone)

## Post Setup

Congrats! You have completed the setup, but there's a lot more you can do with
Firezone:

* [Integrate your identity provider](../../authenticate/)
  for authenticating clients
* Using Firezone to
  [establish a static IP](../../user-guides/use-cases/nat-gateway)
* Create tunnels between multiple peers with
  [reverse tunnels](../../user-guides/use-cases/reverse-tunnel)
* Only route certain traffic through Firezone with
  [split tunneling](../../user-guides/use-cases/split-tunnel)
