docs/docs/deploy/docker/supported-platforms.mdx, before:

---
title: Supported Platforms
sidebar_position: 1
---

Firezone currently supports the following platforms for Docker-based
deployments.

| OS      | Architecture(s) | Runtime        | Status          | Notes                                            |
| ---     | ---             | ---            | ---             | ---                                              |
| Linux   | `amd64` `arm64` | Docker Server  | Fully-supported | `wireguard` module needed for kernels &lt; `5.6` |
| Linux   | `amd64` `arm64` | Docker Desktop | Fully-supported | Not recommended for production deployments.      |
| macOS   | `amd64` `arm64` | Docker Desktop | Fully-supported | Not recommended for production deployments.      |
| Windows | `amd64` `arm64` | Docker Desktop | Fully-supported | Not recommended for production deployments.      |

:::info
Docker Desktop [rewrites the source address
](https://www.docker.com/blog/how-docker-desktop-networking-works-under-the-hood/)
for packets flowing out of container networks under some conditions. This can
cause routing loops and other hard to debug connectivity issues with Firezone.
We recommend **only** using Docker Server for Linux for production deployments.
:::

Commit message:

Build/fix no prefix (#1089)
* fix: use caddy in host network_mode and make sure urls have a scheme

* fix: remove unnecesary exposed ports

* fix: remove support for hostnames begining with // since caddy doesn't support it

* Fix schemeless external URLs; error on invalid ones (#1090)

* Fix schemeless external URLs; error on invalid ones

* use different dockerfile for linux vs non-linux

* Use conditional EXTERNAL_URL defaults

* suppress empty warning

* postgres volume location

* Use inline Caddyfile

Co-authored-by: Jamil <jamilbk@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/docs/deploy/docker/supported-platforms.mdx, after:

---
title: Supported Platforms
sidebar_position: 1
---

Firezone currently supports the following platforms for Docker-based
deployments.

| OS      | Architecture(s) | Runtime        | Status                  | Notes                                                                                   |
| ---     | ---             | ---            | ---                     | ---                                                                                     |
| Linux   | `amd64` `arm64` | Docker Server  | **Fully-supported**     | `wireguard` kernel module needed for kernels &lt; `5.6`.                                |
| Linux   | `amd64` `arm64` | Docker Desktop | Works, but unsupported. | Not recommended for production deployments. See [caveats](#docker-desktop-caveats).     |
| macOS   | `amd64` `arm64` | Docker Desktop | Works. but unsupported. | Not recommended for production deployments. See [caveats](#non-linux-platform-caveats). |
| Windows | `amd64` `arm64` | Docker Desktop | **Untested**            | Not recommended for production deployments. See [caveats](#non-linux-platform-caveats). |

## Docker Desktop Caveats

Docker Desktop [rewrites the source address
](https://www.docker.com/blog/how-docker-desktop-networking-works-under-the-hood/)
for packets flowing out of container networks under some conditions. This can
cause routing loops and other hard to debug connectivity issues with Firezone.
We recommend **only** using Docker Server for Linux for production deployments.

## Non-Linux Platform Caveats

Only Docker for Linux supports the host networking mode, so macOS and Windows
platforms will be able unable to properly attribute client source address
for HTTP requests. This means any IP-based throttling or logging in your
chosen proxy (`caddy` by default) will be ineffective, since the source
IP will always be the Docker-side host IP (typically `172.X.0.1`).

Egress rules operate on the tunneled client IP address and aren't affected
by this limitation.
