website/src/app/kb/authenticate/email/readme.mdx, before:

import PlanBadge from "@/components/PlanBadge";
import Alert from "@/components/DocsAlert";
import SupportOptions from "@/components/SupportOptions";

<PlanBadge plans={["starter", "team", "enterprise"]}>

# Email (OTP) Authentication

</PlanBadge>

Firezone supports email authentication using a one-time password (OTP).

This connector is enabled by default for all plans and is designed to get you up
and running with Firezone quickly. For production deployments, we recommend
setting up [Universal OIDC](/kb/authenticate/oidc),
[Google Workspace](/kb/authenticate/google),
[Microsoft Entra ID](/kb/authenticate/entra), or [Okta](/kb/authenticate/okta).

Firezone's OTP-based email authentication connector sends a one-time password to
the user's email each time authentication is requested. This password is
short-lived and can only be used to authenticate once.

<Alert color="warning">
  User / group sync is **not supported** with the Email (OTP) connector. See the
  [Google Workspace](/kb/authenticate/google), [Microsoft Entra
  ID](/kb/authenticate/entra), or [Okta](/kb/authenticate/okta) connectors for
  automatic directory sync.
</Alert>

## Disabling email authentication

The email authentication connector can be **disabled completely** for your
account, forcing all users and admins to authenticate with another connector.
This can increase security by reducing the number of potential entrypoints into
your Firezone account.

To do so, navigate to `Settings -> Identity providers`, select the Email
provider in the list, and then click `Disable` in the upper-right.

<Alert color="warning">
  Disabling the email provider can lead to issues signing in if all of your
  other connectors stop working. For that reason, you may want to leave the
  email authentication connector enabled with at least one admin assigned for
  recovery purposes.
</Alert>

<SupportOptions />

Commit message:

docs(portal): overhaul auth and sync docs (#11265)
Update Okta Auth docs for new auth system rolling out.

Fixes #11050

---------

Co-authored-by: Jamil Bou Kheir <jamilbk@users.noreply.github.com>

website/src/app/kb/authenticate/email/readme.mdx, after:

import PlanBadge from "@/components/PlanBadge";
import Alert from "@/components/DocsAlert";
import SupportOptions from "@/components/SupportOptions";

<PlanBadge plans={["starter", "team", "enterprise"]}>

# Email (OTP) Authentication

</PlanBadge>

Firezone supports email authentication using a one-time password (OTP).

This provider is enabled by default for all plans and is designed to get you up
and running with Firezone quickly. For production deployments, we recommend
setting up [Universal OIDC](/kb/authenticate/oidc),
[Google](/kb/authenticate/google), [Entra](/kb/authenticate/entra), or
[Okta](/kb/authenticate/okta) authentication for a more seamless user experience
and improved security.

Firezone's OTP-based email authentication provider sends a one-time password to
the user's email each time authentication is requested. This password is
short-lived and can only be used to authenticate once.

<Alert color="warning">
  Users and groups must be managed manually with the Email / OTP provider. See
  the [Google](/kb/directory-sync/google), [Entra](/kb/directory-sync/entra), or
  [Okta](/kb/directory-sync/okta) guides for setting up automated user and group
  management with those providers.
</Alert>

## Disabling email authentication

The email authentication provider can be **disabled completely** for your
account, forcing all users and admins to authenticate with another provider.
This can increase security by reducing the number of potential entrypoints into
your Firezone account.

To do so, navigate to `Settings -> Identity providers`, select the Email
provider in the list, and then click `Disable` in the upper-right.

<Alert color="warning">
  Disabling the email provider can lead to issues signing in if all of your
  other provider stop working. For that reason, you may want to leave the
  email authentication provider enabled with at least one admin assigned for
  recovery purposes.
</Alert>

<SupportOptions />
