docs/docs/administer/migrate.mdx, before:

---
title: Migrate to Docker
sidebar_position: 2
---

Chef Infra Client, the configuration system Chef Omnibus relies on, has been
[scheduled for End-of-Life in 2024](https://docs.chef.io/versions/#supported-commercial-distributions).
As such, Omnibus-based deployments
will be deprecated in a future version of Firezone.

Follow this guide to migrate from an Omnibus-based deployment to a Docker-based
deployment. In most cases this can be done with minimal downtime and without
requiring you to regenerate WireGuard configurations for each device.

Estimated time to complete: **2 hours**.

## Steps to Migrate

1. **Back up** your server. This ensures you have a working state to roll back to
in case anything goes wrong. At a _bare minimum_ you'll want to back up the
[file and directories Firezone uses
](../reference/file-and-directory-locations), but we recommend taking a full
snapshot if possible.
1. Ensure you're running the latest version of Firezone. See our [upgrade guide
](upgrade) if not.
1. Install the latest version of [**Docker**
](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) and [Docker Compose
](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/linux/#install-compose)
for your OS. We recommend using Docker Server for Linux. Docker
Desktop will work too, but is not preferred for production use cases at this time
because it rewrites packets under some conditions and may cause unexpected
issues with Firezone.
1. Download and run the migration script:
```bash
sudo -E bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://github.com/firezone/firezone/raw/master/scripts/docker_migrate.sh)"
```
This will ask you a few questions, then attempt to migrate your installation to
Docker. If all goes well, your Firezone instance should be running with Docker, data intact.

## Rolling Back

If anything goes wrong, you can abort the migration by simply bringing the Docker
services down and the Omnibus ones back up:

```bash
docker-compose down
sudo firezone-ctl start
```

If you've found a bug, please [open a GitHub issue](
https://github.com/firezone/firezone/issues) with the error output and
any steps needed to reproduce.

## Get Help

If you need help migrating from Omnibus to Docker, check our community
support options:

1. [Discussion Forums](https://discourse.firez.one/): Ask questions, report
  bugs, and suggest features.
1. [Public Slack Group](https://join.slack.com/t/firezone-users/shared_invite/zt-111043zus-j1lP_jP5ohv52FhAayzT6w):
  Join live discussions, meet other users, and get to know the contributors.

If you'd like dedicated support migrating your installation from Omnibus
to Docker, consider [contacting us about our paid support plan
](https://firezone.dev/contact/sales).

Commit message:

Minor docs fixes (#1071)
* sudo for migrate

* Use sudo for cat

* docker-compose version 2 or higher

docs/docs/administer/migrate.mdx, after:

---
title: Migrate to Docker
sidebar_position: 2
---

Chef Infra Client, the configuration system Chef Omnibus relies on, has been
[scheduled for End-of-Life in 2024](https://docs.chef.io/versions/#supported-commercial-distributions).
As such, Omnibus-based deployments
will be deprecated in a future version of Firezone.

Follow this guide to migrate from an Omnibus-based deployment to a Docker-based
deployment. In most cases this can be done with minimal downtime and without
requiring you to regenerate WireGuard configurations for each device.

Estimated time to complete: **2 hours**.

## Steps to Migrate

1. **Back up** your server. This ensures you have a working state to roll back to
in case anything goes wrong. At a _bare minimum_ you'll want to back up the
[file and directories Firezone uses
](../reference/file-and-directory-locations), but we recommend taking a full
snapshot if possible.
1. Ensure you're running the latest version of Firezone. See our [upgrade guide
](upgrade) if not.
1. Install the latest version of [**Docker**
](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) and [Docker Compose
](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/linux/#install-compose)
for your OS. **Docker Compose version 2 or higher is required**.
We recommend using Docker Server for Linux. Docker
Desktop will work too, but is not preferred for production use cases at this time
because it rewrites packets under some conditions and may cause unexpected
issues with Firezone.
1. Download and run the migration script:
```bash
bash <(curl -fsSL https://github.com/firezone/firezone/raw/master/scripts/docker_migrate.sh)
```
This will ask you a few questions, then attempt to migrate your installation to
Docker. If all goes well, your Firezone instance should be running with Docker, data intact.

## Rolling Back

If anything goes wrong, you can abort the migration by simply bringing the Docker
services down and the Omnibus ones back up:

```bash
docker-compose down
sudo firezone-ctl start
```

If you've found a bug, please [open a GitHub issue](
https://github.com/firezone/firezone/issues) with the error output and
any steps needed to reproduce.

## Get Help

If you need help migrating from Omnibus to Docker, check our community
support options:

1. [Discussion Forums](https://discourse.firez.one/): Ask questions, report
  bugs, and suggest features.
1. [Public Slack Group](https://join.slack.com/t/firezone-users/shared_invite/zt-111043zus-j1lP_jP5ohv52FhAayzT6w):
  Join live discussions, meet other users, and get to know the contributors.

If you'd like dedicated support migrating your installation from Omnibus
to Docker, consider [contacting us about our paid support plan
](https://firezone.dev/contact/sales).
