docs/docs/administer/troubleshoot.mdx, before:

---
title: Troubleshoot
sidebar_position: 6
---

For any problems that arise, a good first bet is to check the Firezone logs.
Firezone logs are stored in `/var/log/firezone` and can be viewed with
`sudo firezone-ctl tail`.

## Debugging Portal Websocket Connectivity Issues

The portal UI requires a secure websocket connection to function. To facilitate
this, the Firezone phoenix service checks the `Host` header for inbound
websocket connections and only permits the connection if it matches the host
portion of your `default['firezone']['external_url']` variable.

If a secure websocket connection can't be established, you'll see a red dot
indicator in the upper-right portion of the Firezone web UI and a corresponding
message when you hover over it:

```text
Secure websocket not connected! ...
```

If you're accessing Firezone using the same URL defined in your
`default['firezone']['external_url']` variable from above, the issue is likely
to be in your reverse proxy configuration.

In most cases, you'll find clues in one or more of the following locations:

* Your browser's developer tool logs, specifically the `Network` tab.
* `sudo firezone-ctl tail nginx`
* `sudo firezoen-ctl tail phoenix`

If the websocket connection is successful, you should see output in the
`phoenix` service logs similar the following:

```text
2022-09-23_15:05:47.29158 15:05:47.291 [info] CONNECTED TO Phoenix.LiveView.Socket in 24µs
2022-09-23_15:05:47.29160   Transport: :websocket
2022-09-23_15:05:47.29160   Serializer: Phoenix.Socket.V2.JSONSerializer
2022-09-23_15:05:47.29161   Parameters: %{"_csrf_token" => "XFEFCHQ2fRQABQwtKQdCJDlFAzEcCCJvn7LqDsMXE4eGZtsBzuwVRCJ6", "_mounts" => "0", "_track_static" => %{"0" => "https://demo.firez.one/dist/admin-02fabe0f543c64122dbf5bc5b3451e51.css?vsn=d", "1" => "https://demo.firez.one/dist/admin-04e75c78295062c2c07af61be50248b0.js?vsn=d"}, "vsn" => "2.0.0"}
2022-09-23_15:05:47.33655 15:05:47.336 [info] CONNECTED TO FzHttpWeb.UserSocket in 430µs
2022-09-23_15:05:47.33657   Transport: :websocket
2022-09-23_15:05:47.33658   Serializer: Phoenix.Socket.V2.JSONSerializer
2022-09-23_15:05:47.33658   Parameters: %{"token" => "SFMyNTY.g2gDYQFuBgB6HeJqgwFiAAFRgA.qKoC2bi9DubPkE0tfaRSPERWUFyQQPQV5n4nFKVppxc", "vsn" => "2.0.0"}
2022-09-23_15:05:47.35063 15:05:47.350 [info] JOINED notification:session in 636µs
2022-09-23_15:05:47.35065   Parameters: %{"token" => "SFMyNTY.g2gDYQFuBgB6HeJqgwFiAAFRgA.zSG7pefm-Vgf_zvduxa5E9VK4s8PKqzc0xBDGNx5FQE", "user_agent" => "Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10.15; rv:106.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/106.0"}
```

## Debugging WireGuard Connectivity Issues

Most connectivity issues with Firezone are caused by other `iptables` or
`nftables` rules which interfere with Firezone's operation. If you have rules
active, you'll need to ensure these don't conflict with the Firezone rules.

### Internet Connectivity Drops when Tunnel is Active

If your Internet connectivity drops whenever you activate your WireGuard
tunnel, you should make sure that the `FORWARD` chain allows packets
from your WireGuard clients to the destinations you want to allow through
Firezone.

If you're using `ufw`, this can be done by making sure the default routing
policy is `allow`:

```text
ubuntu@fz:~$ sudo ufw default allow routed
Default routed policy changed to 'allow'
(be sure to update your rules accordingly)
```

A `ufw` status for a typical Firezone server might look like this:

```text
ubuntu@fz:~$ sudo ufw status verbose
Status: active
Logging: on (low)
Default: deny (incoming), allow (outgoing), allow (routed)
New profiles: skip

To                         Action      From
--                         ------      ----
22/tcp                     ALLOW IN    Anywhere
80/tcp                     ALLOW IN    Anywhere
443/tcp                    ALLOW IN    Anywhere
51820/udp                  ALLOW IN    Anywhere
22/tcp (v6)                ALLOW IN    Anywhere (v6)
80/tcp (v6)                ALLOW IN    Anywhere (v6)
443/tcp (v6)               ALLOW IN    Anywhere (v6)
51820/udp (v6)             ALLOW IN    Anywhere (v6)
```

## Need additional help?

Try asking on one of our community-powered support channels:

* [Discussion Forums](https://discourse.firez.one/): ask questions, report bugs,
and suggest features
* [Public Slack Group](https://join.slack.com/t/firezone-users/shared_invite/zt-111043zus-j1lP_jP5ohv52FhAayzT6w):
join discussions, meet other users, and meet the contributors

We highly recommend considering [priority support](https://firezone.dev/pricing)
if you're deploying Firezone in a production capacity.

Commit message:

Better validate OIDC and SAML configs (#1026)
* Bump postgres to release; Note on Caddy cert

* default auto_create_users

* Validate SAML and OIDC configs better

* Fix failing test

docs/docs/administer/troubleshoot.mdx, after:

---
title: Troubleshoot
sidebar_position: 6
---

For any problems that arise, a good first bet is to check the Firezone logs.
Firezone logs are stored in `/var/log/firezone` and can be viewed with
`sudo firezone-ctl tail`.

## Application Crash Loop Preventing Config Changes

In cases where the application is crash looping because of corrupt, inaccessible, or
invalid data in the DB, you can try clearing the affected fields.

For example, to clear OIDC configs:

```text
psql -d firezone -h 127.0.0.1 -U postgres -c "UPDATE configurations SET openid_connect_providers = '{}'"
```

Similarly, to clear SAML configs:

```text
psql -d firezone -h 127.0.0.1 -U postgres -c "UPDATE configurations SET saml_providers = '{}'"
```

## Debugging Portal Websocket Connectivity Issues

The portal UI requires a secure websocket connection to function. To facilitate
this, the Firezone phoenix service checks the `Host` header for inbound
websocket connections and only permits the connection if it matches the host
portion of your `default['firezone']['external_url']` variable.

If a secure websocket connection can't be established, you'll see a red dot
indicator in the upper-right portion of the Firezone web UI and a corresponding
message when you hover over it:

```text
Secure websocket not connected! ...
```

If you're accessing Firezone using the same URL defined in your
`default['firezone']['external_url']` variable from above, the issue is likely
to be in your reverse proxy configuration.

In most cases, you'll find clues in one or more of the following locations:

* Your browser's developer tool logs, specifically the `Network` tab.
* `sudo firezone-ctl tail nginx`
* `sudo firezoen-ctl tail phoenix`

If the websocket connection is successful, you should see output in the
`phoenix` service logs similar the following:

```text
2022-09-23_15:05:47.29158 15:05:47.291 [info] CONNECTED TO Phoenix.LiveView.Socket in 24µs
2022-09-23_15:05:47.29160   Transport: :websocket
2022-09-23_15:05:47.29160   Serializer: Phoenix.Socket.V2.JSONSerializer
2022-09-23_15:05:47.29161   Parameters: %{"_csrf_token" => "XFEFCHQ2fRQABQwtKQdCJDlFAzEcCCJvn7LqDsMXE4eGZtsBzuwVRCJ6", "_mounts" => "0", "_track_static" => %{"0" => "https://demo.firez.one/dist/admin-02fabe0f543c64122dbf5bc5b3451e51.css?vsn=d", "1" => "https://demo.firez.one/dist/admin-04e75c78295062c2c07af61be50248b0.js?vsn=d"}, "vsn" => "2.0.0"}
2022-09-23_15:05:47.33655 15:05:47.336 [info] CONNECTED TO FzHttpWeb.UserSocket in 430µs
2022-09-23_15:05:47.33657   Transport: :websocket
2022-09-23_15:05:47.33658   Serializer: Phoenix.Socket.V2.JSONSerializer
2022-09-23_15:05:47.33658   Parameters: %{"token" => "SFMyNTY.g2gDYQFuBgB6HeJqgwFiAAFRgA.qKoC2bi9DubPkE0tfaRSPERWUFyQQPQV5n4nFKVppxc", "vsn" => "2.0.0"}
2022-09-23_15:05:47.35063 15:05:47.350 [info] JOINED notification:session in 636µs
2022-09-23_15:05:47.35065   Parameters: %{"token" => "SFMyNTY.g2gDYQFuBgB6HeJqgwFiAAFRgA.zSG7pefm-Vgf_zvduxa5E9VK4s8PKqzc0xBDGNx5FQE", "user_agent" => "Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10.15; rv:106.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/106.0"}
```

## Debugging WireGuard Connectivity Issues

Most connectivity issues with Firezone are caused by other `iptables` or
`nftables` rules which interfere with Firezone's operation. If you have rules
active, you'll need to ensure these don't conflict with the Firezone rules.

### Internet Connectivity Drops when Tunnel is Active

If your Internet connectivity drops whenever you activate your WireGuard
tunnel, you should make sure that the `FORWARD` chain allows packets
from your WireGuard clients to the destinations you want to allow through
Firezone.

If you're using `ufw`, this can be done by making sure the default routing
policy is `allow`:

```text
ubuntu@fz:~$ sudo ufw default allow routed
Default routed policy changed to 'allow'
(be sure to update your rules accordingly)
```

A `ufw` status for a typical Firezone server might look like this:

```text
ubuntu@fz:~$ sudo ufw status verbose
Status: active
Logging: on (low)
Default: deny (incoming), allow (outgoing), allow (routed)
New profiles: skip

To                         Action      From
--                         ------      ----
22/tcp                     ALLOW IN    Anywhere
80/tcp                     ALLOW IN    Anywhere
443/tcp                    ALLOW IN    Anywhere
51820/udp                  ALLOW IN    Anywhere
22/tcp (v6)                ALLOW IN    Anywhere (v6)
80/tcp (v6)                ALLOW IN    Anywhere (v6)
443/tcp (v6)               ALLOW IN    Anywhere (v6)
51820/udp (v6)             ALLOW IN    Anywhere (v6)
```

## Need additional help?

Try asking on one of our community-powered support channels:

* [Discussion Forums](https://discourse.firez.one/): ask questions, report bugs,
and suggest features
* [Public Slack Group](https://join.slack.com/t/firezone-users/shared_invite/zt-111043zus-j1lP_jP5ohv52FhAayzT6w):
join discussions, meet other users, and meet the contributors

We highly recommend considering [priority support](https://firezone.dev/pricing)
if you're deploying Firezone in a production capacity.
