website/src/app/kb/directory-sync/entra/readme.mdx, before:

import Alert from "@/components/DocsAlert";
import PlanBadge from "@/components/PlanBadge";
import SupportOptions from "@/components/SupportOptions";

<PlanBadge plans={["enterprise"]}>

# Sync with Microsoft Entra ID

</PlanBadge>

On Enterprise plans, Firezone can automatically synchronize users and groups
from your Microsoft Entra ID directory. This eliminates the need to manually
create and manage users in Firezone. You can add multiple Entra directories to
sync from different tenants.

## Overview

Firezone uses Microsoft Graph API to read users and groups from your Entra
directory. When you complete the setup flow, you'll authorize Firezone to access
your directory with read-only permissions.

<Alert color="info">
  **Prerequisite:** If you plan to use the **Assigned groups only** sync mode,
  you must first complete [Entra authentication setup](/kb/authenticate/entra).
  This creates the Firezone Enterprise Application in your tenant that you'll
  assign groups to.
</Alert>

## Setup

### Step 1: Start the Directory Sync setup in Firezone

1. In your Firezone admin portal, go to `Settings -> Directory Sync`.
1. Click **Add Directory** and select **Microsoft Entra ID**.
1. Enter a name for this directory to easily identify it in the Firezone portal
   (e.g. "Entra ID").

### Step 2: Choose a sync mode

Select how you want Firezone to sync groups from your directory:

#### Assigned groups only (recommended)

Only groups assigned to the **Firezone Authentication** Enterprise Application
in your Entra tenant will be synced. This gives you fine-grained control over
which groups appear in Firezone.

<Alert color="warning">
  This option requires **Entra ID P1/P2** or higher. It will not work with Entra
  ID Free.
</Alert>

To assign groups to the Firezone application:

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
1. Go to **Microsoft Entra ID → Enterprise applications**.
1. Search for **Firezone Authentication** and select it.
1. Go to **Users and groups**.
1. Click **Add user/group** to assign specific groups.

<Alert color="warning">
  Make sure you select the **Firezone Authentication** application and _not_ the
  **Firezone Directory Sync** application. Groups must be assigned to the
  Authentication application for this sync mode to work.
</Alert>

Only users who are members of the assigned groups will be synced to Firezone.

#### All groups

All groups from your Entra directory will be synced to Firezone. Use this option
if:

- You're using **Entra ID Free** (which doesn't support app assignments for
  groups).
- You want to sync all groups without managing assignments.

<Alert color="info">
  With **All groups**, every group in your directory will appear in Firezone.
  For large directories, consider using **Assigned groups only** to limit which
  groups are synced.
</Alert>

### Step 3: Verify and save

Click **Verify Now** to authorize Firezone to access your Entra directory.
You'll be redirected to Microsoft to sign in and grant permissions.

<Alert color="warning">
  Verify you're signing into the **correct tenant** before granting permissions.
  The tenant ID will be captured during this step.
</Alert>

If successful, you'll see a confirmation message. Click **Save** to complete the
setup.

<Alert color="success">
  **Directory Sync is now active!**

Users and groups from your Microsoft Entra ID directory will automatically sync
to Firezone. You no longer need to manually create users in the Firezone portal.

</Alert>

## Sync timing

Directory sync runs automatically every 2 hours. To trigger a sync immediately,
click the **Sync Now** button on the directory card in
`Settings -> Directory Sync`.

## Troubleshooting

### "Unauthorized" or "Access Denied" error

This typically means the permissions were not granted correctly during setup.
Try removing the directory and adding it again, ensuring you grant all requested
permissions during the authorization flow.

### Groups not syncing (Assigned groups only)

If you're using **Assigned groups only** and groups aren't appearing:

1. Verify you have **Entra ID P1/P2** or higher.
1. Check that the groups are assigned to the **Firezone Authentication**
   Enterprise Application in the Azure portal.

### Users not syncing

Users are synced based on their group membership. If a user isn't syncing:

1. Verify the user is a member of a group that's being synced.
1. For **Assigned groups only**, ensure the user's group is assigned to the
   Firezone application.
1. Wait for the next sync cycle or click **Sync Now**.

### Wrong tenant

If users or groups from the wrong tenant are syncing, remove the directory and
add it again. During the **Verify Now** step, ensure you're signing into the
correct Microsoft account and tenant.

<SupportOptions />

Commit message:

docs(portal): update dir sync docs (#12105)
* Update Entra directory sync docs with new user assignment directions.
* Update Okta directory sync docs with DPoP requirement


Fixes #11774
Fixes #12107 
References #11787

website/src/app/kb/directory-sync/entra/readme.mdx, after:

import Alert from "@/components/DocsAlert";
import PlanBadge from "@/components/PlanBadge";
import SupportOptions from "@/components/SupportOptions";

<PlanBadge plans={["enterprise"]}>

# Sync with Microsoft Entra ID

</PlanBadge>

On Enterprise plans, Firezone can automatically synchronize users and groups
from your Microsoft Entra ID directory. This eliminates the need to manually
create and manage users in Firezone. You can add multiple Entra directories to
sync from different tenants.

## Overview

Firezone uses Microsoft Graph API to read users and groups from your Entra
directory. When you complete the setup flow, you'll authorize Firezone to access
your directory with read-only permissions.

## Setup

### Step 1: Start the Directory Sync setup in Firezone

1. In your Firezone admin portal, go to `Settings -> Directory Sync`.
1. Click **Add Directory** and select **Microsoft Entra ID**.
1. Enter a name for this directory to easily identify it in the Firezone portal
   (e.g. "Entra ID").

### Step 2: Choose a sync mode

Select how you want Firezone to sync groups from your directory:

#### Assigned groups only (recommended)

Only groups assigned to the **Firezone Directory Sync** Enterprise Application
in your Entra tenant will be synced. This gives you fine-grained control over
which groups appear in Firezone.

<Alert color="warning">
  This option requires **Entra ID P1/P2** or higher. It will not work with Entra
  ID Free.
</Alert>

To assign groups to the Firezone Directory Sync application:

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
1. Go to **Microsoft Entra ID → Enterprise applications**.
1. Search for **Firezone Directory Sync** and select it.
1. Go to **Users and groups**.
1. Click **Add user/group** to assign specific groups.

<Alert color="warning">
  Make sure you select the **Firezone Directory Sync** application and _not_ the
  **Firezone Authentication** application. Groups must be assigned to the
  Directory Sync application for this sync mode to work.
</Alert>

Only users who are members of the assigned groups will be synced to Firezone.

#### All groups

All groups from your Entra directory will be synced to Firezone. Use this option
if:

- You're using **Entra ID Free** (which doesn't support app assignments for
  groups).
- You want to sync all groups without managing assignments.

<Alert color="info">
  With **All groups**, every group in your directory will appear in Firezone.
  For large directories, consider using **Assigned groups only** to limit which
  groups are synced.
</Alert>

### Step 3: Verify and save

Click **Verify Now** to authorize Firezone to access your Entra directory.
You'll be redirected to Microsoft to sign in and grant permissions.

<Alert color="warning">
  Verify you're signing into the **correct tenant** before granting permissions.
  The tenant ID will be captured during this step.
</Alert>

If successful, you'll see a confirmation message. Click **Save** to complete the
setup.

<Alert color="success">
  **Directory Sync is now active!**

Users and groups from your Microsoft Entra ID directory will automatically sync
to Firezone. You no longer need to manually create users in the Firezone portal.

</Alert>

## Sync timing

Directory sync runs automatically every 2 hours. To trigger a sync immediately,
click the **Sync Now** button on the directory card in
`Settings -> Directory Sync`.

## Troubleshooting

### "Unauthorized" or "Access Denied" error

This typically means the permissions were not granted correctly during setup.
We recommend editing the directory in Firezone, clicking **Reset Verification**
then click **Verify Now**. You should be asked to grant the appropriate permissions.

If you need to delete the Enterprise App in the Entra Portal, first disable the
sync in the Firezone portal. After deleting the Enterprise App return to Firezone,
edit the Entra directory sync, click **Reset Verification**, and then click **Verify Now**.

### Groups not syncing (Assigned groups only)

If you're using **Assigned groups only** and groups aren't appearing:

1. Verify you have **Entra ID P1/P2** or higher.
1. Check that the groups are assigned to the **Firezone Directory Sync**
   Enterprise Application in the Azure portal.

### Users not syncing

Users are synced based on their group membership. If a user isn't syncing:

1. Verify the user is a member of a group that's being synced.
1. For **Assigned groups only**, ensure the user's group is assigned to the
   Firezone Directory Sync application.
1. Wait for the next sync cycle or click **Sync Now**.

### Wrong tenant

If users or groups from the wrong tenant are syncing, remove the directory and
add it again. During the **Verify Now** step, ensure you're signing into the
correct Microsoft account and tenant.

<SupportOptions />
