docs/docs/authenticate/saml/google.mdx, before:

---
title: Google Workspace
sidebar_position: 2
description: Firezone's WireGuard®-based remote access platform supports using Google as a single sign-on provider using a SAML 2.0 connector.
---

:::note
This guide assumes you have completed the prerequisite steps
(e.g. generate self-signed X.509 certificates) outlined [here](/authenticate/saml#prerequisites).
:::

Firezone supports Single Sign-On (SSO) using Google through the generic SAML 2.0
connector. This guide will walk you through how to configure the integration.

## Create a SAML connector

In the Google Workspace admin portal, create a new SAML app under
the Application > Web and mobile apps tab. Use the following config values during setup:

| Setting         | Value                                                                                                                                    |
|-----------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| App name        | Firezone                                                                                                                                 |
| App icon        | [save link as](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/202567638-513dba14-ea8c-4da8-8f75-341310f1e456.png)                    |
| ACS URL         | This is your Firezone `EXTERNAL_URL/auth/saml/sp/consume/:config_id` (e.g., `https://firezone.company.com/auth/saml/sp/consume/google`). |
| Entity ID       | This should be the same as your Firezone `SAML_ENTITY_ID`, defaults to `urn:firezone.dev:firezone-app`.                                  |
| Signed response | Unchecked.                                                                                                                               |
| Name ID format  | Unspecified                                                                                                                              |
| Name ID         | Basic Information > Primary email                                                                                                        |

![Google SAML](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/205353768-0c8696b2-5fb2-42a7-98fa-9d68b23dfb05.png)

Once complete, save the changes and download the SAML metadata document. You'll need
to copy-paste the contents of this document into the Firezone portal in the next step.

## Add SAML identity provider to Firezone

In the Firezone portal, add a SAML identity provider under the Security tab
by filling out the following information:

| Setting                   | Value          | Notes                                                                                                                                  |
|---------------------------|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Config ID                 | google         | Firezone uses this value to construct endpoints required in the SAML authentication flow (e.g., receiving assertions, login requests). |
| Label                     | Google         | Appears on the sign in button for authentication.                                                                                      |
| Metadata                  | see note       | Paste the contents of the SAML metadata document you downloaded in the previous step from Google.                                      |
| Sign assertions           | Checked.       |                                                                                                                                        |
| Sign metadata             | Checked.       |                                                                                                                                        |
| Require signed assertions | Checked.       |                                                                                                                                        |
| Required signed envelopes | **Unchecked.** |                                                                                                                                        |

![Firezone SAML](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/202566502-3a06694b-249e-4330-9f6b-39004eb36406.png)

After saving the SAML config, you should see a `Sign in with Google` button
on your Firezone portal sign-in page.

Commit message:

Docs - Improve titles and descriptions (#1187)
* docs: update titles, descriptions

Changes:
- set more descriptive titles (better for readers and SEO)
- add meta descriptions
- convert titles to sentence case for consistency

* docs: small fixes

* fix trailing whitespaces

* fix spelling

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Jamil <jamilbk@users.noreply.github.com>
Signed-off-by: Jason G <jason@firez.one>

* add descriptions to client instructions

Signed-off-by: Jason G <jason@firez.one>
Co-authored-by: Jamil <jamilbk@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/docs/authenticate/saml/google.mdx, after:

---
title: Google Workspace
sidebar_position: 2
description:
    Enforce 2FA/MFA using Google Workspace for users of Firezone's WireGuard®-based
    secure access platform. This guide walks through integrating Google Workspace
    for single sign-on using the SAML 2.0 connector.
---

# Enable SSO with Google Workspace (SAML 2.0)

:::note
This guide assumes you have completed the prerequisite steps
(e.g. generate self-signed X.509 certificates) outlined [here](/authenticate/saml#prerequisites).
:::

Firezone supports Single Sign-On (SSO) using Google through the generic SAML 2.0
connector. This guide will walk you through how to configure the integration.

## Create a SAML connector

In the Google Workspace admin portal, create a new SAML app under
the Application > Web and mobile apps tab. Use the following config values during setup:

| Setting         | Value                                                                                                                                    |
|-----------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| App name        | Firezone                                                                                                                                 |
| App icon        | [save link as](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/202567638-513dba14-ea8c-4da8-8f75-341310f1e456.png)                    |
| ACS URL         | This is your Firezone `EXTERNAL_URL/auth/saml/sp/consume/:config_id` (e.g., `https://firezone.company.com/auth/saml/sp/consume/google`). |
| Entity ID       | This should be the same as your Firezone `SAML_ENTITY_ID`, defaults to `urn:firezone.dev:firezone-app`.                                  |
| Signed response | Unchecked.                                                                                                                               |
| Name ID format  | Unspecified                                                                                                                              |
| Name ID         | Basic Information > Primary email                                                                                                        |

![Google SAML](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/205353768-0c8696b2-5fb2-42a7-98fa-9d68b23dfb05.png)

Once complete, save the changes and download the SAML metadata document. You'll need
to copy-paste the contents of this document into the Firezone portal in the next step.

## Add SAML identity provider to Firezone

In the Firezone portal, add a SAML identity provider under the Security tab
by filling out the following information:

| Setting                   | Value          | Notes                                                                                                                                  |
|---------------------------|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Config ID                 | google         | Firezone uses this value to construct endpoints required in the SAML authentication flow (e.g., receiving assertions, login requests). |
| Label                     | Google         | Appears on the sign in button for authentication.                                                                                      |
| Metadata                  | see note       | Paste the contents of the SAML metadata document you downloaded in the previous step from Google.                                      |
| Sign assertions           | Checked.       |                                                                                                                                        |
| Sign metadata             | Checked.       |                                                                                                                                        |
| Require signed assertions | Checked.       |                                                                                                                                        |
| Required signed envelopes | **Unchecked.** |                                                                                                                                        |

![Firezone SAML](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/202566502-3a06694b-249e-4330-9f6b-39004eb36406.png)

After saving the SAML config, you should see a `Sign in with Google` button
on your Firezone portal sign-in page.
