docs/docs/authenticate/saml/jumpcloud.mdx, before:

---
title: JumpCloud
sidebar_position: 4
description:
    Enforce 2FA/MFA using JumpCloud for users of Firezone's WireGuard®-based
    secure access platform. This guide walks through integrating JumpCloud
    for single sign-on using the SAML 2.0 connector.
---

# Enable SSO with JumpCloud (SAML 2.0)

:::note
This guide assumes you have completed the prerequisite steps
(e.g. generate self-signed X.509 certificates) outlined [here](/authenticate/saml#prerequisites).
:::

Firezone supports Single Sign-On (SSO) using JumpCloud through the generic SAML 2.0 connector.
This guide will walk you through how to configure the integration.

## Create a SAML connector

In the JumpCloud admin portal, create a new App under
the SSO tab. At the bottom of the popup window, click `Custom SAML App`.

After entering your desired value for `Display Label`, click the `SSO` tab,
then use the following configuration values:

| Setting                   | Value                                                                                                                                     |
| ---                       | ---                                                                                                                                       |
| IdP Entity ID             | Any unique string will work, e.g. `firezone-jumpcloud`.                                                                                   |
| SP Entity ID              | This should be the same as your Firezone `SAML_ENTITY_ID`, defaults to `urn:firezone.dev:firezone-app`.                                   |
| ACS URL                   | This is your Firezone `EXTERNAL_URL/auth/saml/sp/consume/:config_id`, e.g. `https://firezone.company.com/auth/saml/sp/consume/jumpcloud`. |
| SAMLSubject NameID        | `email`                                                                                                                                   |
| SAMLSubject NameID Format | Leave at the default.                                                                                                                     |
| Signature Algorithm       | `RSA-SHA256`                                                                                                                              |
| Sign Assertion            | **Checked**.                                                                                                                              |
| Login URL                 | This is your Firezone `EXTERNAL_URL/auth/saml/auth/signin/:config_id`, e.g. `https://firezone.company.com/auth/saml/auth/signin/jumpcloud`|

Leave the rest of the settings unchanged, then click the `activate` button at the bottom-right.

Your JumpCloud configuration should now resemble the following:

![JumpCloud SAML](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/202558446-128e7484-eda6-429f-b6c1-dbabbf5dc7e3.png)

Now, download the IdP Metadata document by selecting the App you just created
and then clicking the `export metadata` button in the upper-right. You'll need
to copy-paste the contents of this document into the Firezone portal in the next step.

## Add SAML identity provider to Firezone

In the Firezone portal, add a SAML identity provider under the Security tab
by filling out the following information:

| Setting                   | Value            | Notes                                                                                                                                  |
| ---                       | ---              | ---                                                                                                                                    |
| Config ID                 | `jumpcloud`      | Firezone uses this value to construct endpoints required in the SAML authentication flow (e.g., receiving assertions, login requests). |
| Label                     | `JumpCloud`      | Appears on the sign in button for authentication.                                                                                      |
| Base URL                  | Leave unchanged. |                                                                                                                                        |
| Metadata                  | see note         | Copy-paste the contents of the SAML metadata document you downloaded in the previous step from JumpCloud.                              |
| Sign assertions           | Checked.         |                                                                                                                                        |
| Sign metadata             | Checked.         |                                                                                                                                        |
| Require signed assertions | Checked.         |                                                                                                                                        |
| Required signed envelopes | **Unchecked.**   |                                                                                                                                        |

Your Firezone configuration should now resemble the following:

![Firezone SAML](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/202557853-95246d0e-074c-4d31-ab89-26a3a3a7deda.png)

After saving the SAML config, you should see a `Sign in with JumpCloud` button
on your Firezone portal sign-in page.

Commit message:

Document auto-create users more clearly in SAML setup guides (#1364)
There's been some confusion lately over the change to disable
auto-create users by default, so this PR aims to document the choice a
little more clearly.

Refs #1362 #1117

Co-authored-by: Andrew Dryga <andrew@dryga.com>

docs/docs/authenticate/saml/jumpcloud.mdx, after:

---
title: JumpCloud
sidebar_position: 4
description:
    Enforce 2FA/MFA using JumpCloud for users of Firezone's WireGuard®-based
    secure access platform. This guide walks through integrating JumpCloud
    for single sign-on using the SAML 2.0 connector.
---

# Enable SSO with JumpCloud (SAML 2.0)

:::note
This guide assumes you have completed the prerequisite steps
(e.g. generate self-signed X.509 certificates) outlined [here](/authenticate/saml#prerequisites).
:::

Firezone supports Single Sign-On (SSO) using JumpCloud through the generic SAML 2.0 connector.
This guide will walk you through how to configure the integration.

## Create a SAML connector

In the JumpCloud admin portal, create a new App under
the SSO tab. At the bottom of the popup window, click `Custom SAML App`.

After entering your desired value for `Display Label`, click the `SSO` tab,
then use the following configuration values:

| Setting                   | Value                                                                                                                                     |
| ---                       | ---                                                                                                                                       |
| IdP Entity ID             | Any unique string will work, e.g. `firezone-jumpcloud`.                                                                                   |
| SP Entity ID              | This should be the same as your Firezone `SAML_ENTITY_ID`, defaults to `urn:firezone.dev:firezone-app`.                                   |
| ACS URL                   | This is your Firezone `EXTERNAL_URL/auth/saml/sp/consume/:config_id`, e.g. `https://firezone.company.com/auth/saml/sp/consume/jumpcloud`. |
| SAMLSubject NameID        | `email`                                                                                                                                   |
| SAMLSubject NameID Format | Leave at the default.                                                                                                                     |
| Signature Algorithm       | `RSA-SHA256`                                                                                                                              |
| Sign Assertion            | **Checked**.                                                                                                                              |
| Login URL                 | This is your Firezone `EXTERNAL_URL/auth/saml/auth/signin/:config_id`, e.g. `https://firezone.company.com/auth/saml/auth/signin/jumpcloud`|

Leave the rest of the settings unchanged, then click the `activate` button at the bottom-right.

Your JumpCloud configuration should now resemble the following:

![JumpCloud SAML](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/202558446-128e7484-eda6-429f-b6c1-dbabbf5dc7e3.png)

Now, download the IdP Metadata document by selecting the App you just created
and then clicking the `export metadata` button in the upper-right. You'll need
to copy-paste the contents of this document into the Firezone portal in the next step.

## Add SAML identity provider to Firezone

In the Firezone portal, add a SAML identity provider under the Security tab
by filling out the following information:

| Setting                   | Value            | Notes                                                                                                                                       |
| ---                       | ---              | ---                                                                                                                                         |
| Config ID                 | `jumpcloud`      | Firezone uses this value to construct endpoints required in the SAML authentication flow (e.g., receiving assertions, login requests).      |
| Label                     | `JumpCloud`      | Appears on the sign in button for authentication.                                                                                           |
| Base URL                  | Leave unchanged. |                                                                                                                                             |
| Metadata                  | see note         | Copy-paste the contents of the SAML metadata document you downloaded in the previous step from JumpCloud.                                   |
| Sign assertions           | Checked.         |                                                                                                                                             |
| Sign metadata             | Checked.         |                                                                                                                                             |
| Require signed assertions | Checked.         |                                                                                                                                             |
| Required signed envelopes | **Unchecked.**   |                                                                                                                                             |
| Auto create users         | Default `false`  | Enable this setting to automatically create users when signing in with this connector for the first time. Disable to manually create users. |

Your Firezone configuration should now resemble the following:

![Firezone SAML](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/202557853-95246d0e-074c-4d31-ab89-26a3a3a7deda.png)

After saving the SAML config, you should see a `Sign in with JumpCloud` button
on your Firezone portal sign-in page.
