docs/docs/authenticate/saml/onelogin.mdx, before:

---
title: OneLogin
sidebar_position: 3
description:
    Enforce 2FA/MFA using Onelogin for users of Firezone's WireGuard®-based
    secure access platform. This guide walks through integrating OneLogin
    for single sign-on using the SAML 2.0 connector.
---

# Enable SSO with OneLogin (SAML 2.0)

:::note
This guide assumes you have completed the prerequisite steps
(e.g. generate self-signed X.509 certificates) outlined [here](/authenticate/saml#prerequisites).
:::

Firezone supports Single Sign-On (SSO) using OneLogin through the generic SAML 2.0 connector.
This guide will walk you through how to configure the integration.

## Create a SAML connector

In the OneLogin admin portal, add an app under the application tab.
Select `SAML Custom Connector (Advanced)` and provide the appropriate
configuration settings under the under the configuration tab.

The following fields should be filled out on this page:

| Setting                | Value                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Audience (EntityID)    | This should be the same as your Firezone `SAML_ENTITY_ID`, defaults to `urn:firezone.dev:firezone-app`.                                                                                   |
| Recipient              | This is your Firezone `EXTERNAL_URL/auth/saml/sp/consume/:config_id` (e.g., `https://firezone.company.com/auth/saml/sp/consume/onelogin`).                                                |
| ACS URL Validator      | This field is regex to ensure OneLogin posts the response to the correct URL. For the sample URL below, we can use `^https:\/\/firezone\.company\.com\/auth\/saml\/sp\/consume\/onelogin` |
| ACS URL                | This is your Firezone `EXTERNAL_URL/auth/saml/sp/consume/:config_id` (e.g., `https://firezone.company.com/auth/saml/sp/consume/onelogin`).                                                |
| Login URL              | This is your Firezone `EXTERNAL_URL/auth/saml/auth/signin/:config_id` (e.g., `https://firezone.company.com/auth/saml/sp/consume/onelogin`).                                               |
| SAML initiator         | Service Provider                                                                                                                                                                          |
| SAML signature element | Both                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Encrypt Assertion      | Checked.                                                                                                                                                                                  |

[OneLogin's docs](https://onelogin.service-now.com/support?id=kb_article&sys_id=912bb23edbde7810fe39dde7489619de&kb_category=93e869b0db185340d5505eea4b961934)
provide a good overview of each field's purpose.

![OneLogin Configs](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/202557656-07b809db-51ba-4133-ae4c-c45ebf40401b.png)

Once complete, save the changes and download the SAML metadata document
found unde the `More Actions` dropdown. You'll need
to copy-paste the contents of this document into the Firezone portal in the next step.

## Add SAML identity provider to Firezone

In the Firezone portal, add a SAML identity provider under the Security tab
by filling out the following information:

| Setting                   | Value            | Notes                                                                                                             |
|---                        |---               |---                                                                                                                |
| Config ID                 | `onelogin`       | Used to construct endpoints required in the SAML authentication flow (e.g., receiving assertions, login requests).|
| Label                     | `OneLogin`       | Appears on the sign in button for authentication.                                                                 |
| Metadata                  | see note         | Paste the contents of the SAML metadata document you downloaded in the previous step from OneLogin.               |
| Sign assertions           | Checked.         |                                                                                                                   |
| Sign metadata             | Checked.         |                                                                                                                   |
| Require signed assertions | Checked.         |                                                                                                                   |
| Required signed envelopes | Checked.         |                                                                                                                   |

![OneLogin SAML](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/202556102-5ba29d84-9610-4ffa-a516-6c89ffef4928.png)

After saving the SAML config, you should see a `Sign in with OneLogin` button
on your Firezone portal sign-in page.

Commit message:

Document auto-create users better
There's been some confusion lately over the change to disable
auto-create users by default, so this PR aims to document the
choice a little more clearly.

Fixes #1362
Refs #1117

docs/docs/authenticate/saml/onelogin.mdx, after:

---
title: OneLogin
sidebar_position: 3
description:
    Enforce 2FA/MFA using Onelogin for users of Firezone's WireGuard®-based
    secure access platform. This guide walks through integrating OneLogin
    for single sign-on using the SAML 2.0 connector.
---

# Enable SSO with OneLogin (SAML 2.0)

:::note
This guide assumes you have completed the prerequisite steps
(e.g. generate self-signed X.509 certificates) outlined [here](/authenticate/saml#prerequisites).
:::

Firezone supports Single Sign-On (SSO) using OneLogin through the generic SAML 2.0 connector.
This guide will walk you through how to configure the integration.

## Create a SAML connector

In the OneLogin admin portal, add an app under the application tab.
Select `SAML Custom Connector (Advanced)` and provide the appropriate
configuration settings under the under the configuration tab.

The following fields should be filled out on this page:

| Setting                | Value                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Audience (EntityID)    | This should be the same as your Firezone `SAML_ENTITY_ID`, defaults to `urn:firezone.dev:firezone-app`.                                                                                   |
| Recipient              | This is your Firezone `EXTERNAL_URL/auth/saml/sp/consume/:config_id` (e.g., `https://firezone.company.com/auth/saml/sp/consume/onelogin`).                                                |
| ACS URL Validator      | This field is regex to ensure OneLogin posts the response to the correct URL. For the sample URL below, we can use `^https:\/\/firezone\.company\.com\/auth\/saml\/sp\/consume\/onelogin` |
| ACS URL                | This is your Firezone `EXTERNAL_URL/auth/saml/sp/consume/:config_id` (e.g., `https://firezone.company.com/auth/saml/sp/consume/onelogin`).                                                |
| Login URL              | This is your Firezone `EXTERNAL_URL/auth/saml/auth/signin/:config_id` (e.g., `https://firezone.company.com/auth/saml/sp/consume/onelogin`).                                               |
| SAML initiator         | Service Provider                                                                                                                                                                          |
| SAML signature element | Both                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Encrypt Assertion      | Checked.                                                                                                                                                                                  |

[OneLogin's docs](https://onelogin.service-now.com/support?id=kb_article&sys_id=912bb23edbde7810fe39dde7489619de&kb_category=93e869b0db185340d5505eea4b961934)
provide a good overview of each field's purpose.

![OneLogin Configs](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/202557656-07b809db-51ba-4133-ae4c-c45ebf40401b.png)

Once complete, save the changes and download the SAML metadata document
found unde the `More Actions` dropdown. You'll need
to copy-paste the contents of this document into the Firezone portal in the next step.

## Add SAML identity provider to Firezone

In the Firezone portal, add a SAML identity provider under the Security tab
by filling out the following information:

| Setting                   | Value           | Notes                                                                                                                                       |
| ---                       | ---             | ---                                                                                                                                         |
| Config ID                 | `onelogin`      | Used to construct endpoints required in the SAML authentication flow (e.g., receiving assertions, login requests).                          |
| Label                     | `OneLogin`      | Appears on the sign in button for authentication.                                                                                           |
| Metadata                  | see note        | Paste the contents of the SAML metadata document you downloaded in the previous step from OneLogin.                                         |
| Sign assertions           | Checked.        |                                                                                                                                             |
| Sign metadata             | Checked.        |                                                                                                                                             |
| Require signed assertions | Checked.        |                                                                                                                                             |
| Required signed envelopes | Checked.        |                                                                                                                                             |
| Auto create users         | Default `false` | Enable this setting to automatically create users when signing in with this connector for the first time. Disable to manually create users. |

![OneLogin SAML](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/202556102-5ba29d84-9610-4ffa-a516-6c89ffef4928.png)

After saving the SAML config, you should see a `Sign in with OneLogin` button
on your Firezone portal sign-in page.
