docs/docs/authenticate/saml/README.mdx, before:

---
title: SAML 2.0
sidebar_position: 11
---

Firezone supports Single Sign-On (SSO) via SAML 2.0.

## Provider Support

In general, most identity providers that support SAML 2.0 should work with
Firezone.

<!-- TODO: Create SAML docs for popular providers -->
<!-- 1. Okta -->
<!-- 1. Onelogin -->
<!-- 1. Azure AD -->
<!-- 1. Google -->

Occasionally, providers that don't implement the full SAML 2.0 standard or use
uncommon configurations may be problematic. If this is the case, [contact us](
https://www.firezone.dev/contact/sales) about a custom integration.

## Prerequisites

Before using SAML 2.0 in Firezone, you'll first need to generate a set of
private and public keys using the RSA or DSA algorithms along with an X.509
certificate that contains the public key. This can be generated with `openssl`
using the following one-liner:

```text
openssl req -x509 -sha256 -nodes -days 365 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout saml.key -out saml.crt
```

Now, configure your Firezone portal to use these:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="docker" label="Docker" default>

Set the `SAML_KEY_PATH` and `SAML_CERT_PATH` environment variables to
the path containing your `saml.key` and `saml.crt` above. If using our [example
docker compose file](https://github.com/firezone/firezone/blob/master/docker-compose.prod.yml),
which includes a volume for mapping configuration,
save these files to `/data/firezone/` on the Docker host and set the
`SAML_KEY_PATH=/var/firezone/saml.key` and
`SAML_CERT_PATH=/var/firezone/saml.crt` environment variables for the Firezone
container.

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="omnibus" label="Omnibus">

Set the following attributes in your `/etc/firezone/firezone.rb`
configuration file:

```ruby
default['firezone']['authentication']['saml']['key'] = '/path/to/your/saml.key'
default['firezone']['authentication']['saml']['cert'] = '/path/to/your/saml.crt'
```

and run `firezone-ctl reconfigure` to pick up the changes.

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## General Instructions

Once you've configured Firezone with an X.509 certificate and corresponding
private key as shown above, you'll need to get the SAML Metadata XML document
from your identity provider.

Commit message:

add okta and onelogin to main README

docs/docs/authenticate/saml/README.mdx, after:

---
title: SAML 2.0
sidebar_position: 11
---

Firezone supports Single Sign-On (SSO) via SAML 2.0.

## Prerequisites

Before using SAML 2.0 in Firezone, you'll first need to generate a set of
private and public keys using the RSA or DSA algorithms along with an X.509
certificate that contains the public key. This can be generated with `openssl`
using the following one-liner:

```text
openssl req -x509 -sha256 -nodes -days 365 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout saml.key -out saml.crt
```

Now, configure your Firezone portal to use these:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="docker" label="Docker" default>

Set the `SAML_KEY_PATH` and `SAML_CERT_PATH` environment variables to
the path containing your `saml.key` and `saml.crt` above. If using our [example
docker compose file](https://github.com/firezone/firezone/blob/master/docker-compose.prod.yml),
which includes a volume for mapping configuration,
save these files to `/data/firezone/` on the Docker host and set the
`SAML_KEY_PATH=/var/firezone/saml.key` and
`SAML_CERT_PATH=/var/firezone/saml.crt` environment variables for the Firezone
container.

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="omnibus" label="Omnibus">

Set the following attributes in your `/etc/firezone/firezone.rb`
configuration file:

```ruby
default['firezone']['authentication']['saml']['key'] = '/path/to/your/saml.key'
default['firezone']['authentication']['saml']['cert'] = '/path/to/your/saml.crt'
```

and run `firezone-ctl reconfigure` to pick up the changes.

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## General Instructions

Once you've configured Firezone with an X.509 certificate and corresponding
private key as shown above, you'll need to get the SAML Metadata XML document
from your identity provider.

## Provider Support

In general, most identity providers that support SAML 2.0 should work with
Firezone.

| Provider              | Support Status                 | Notes                                  |
| ---                   | ---                            | ---                                    |
| [Okta](okta)          | **Tested and supported**       |                                        |
| [Onelogin](onelogin)  | **Tested and supported**       |                                        |
| Google Workspace      | **Untest with known issues**   |                                        |

Occasionally, providers that don't implement the full SAML 2.0 standard or use
uncommon configurations may be problematic. If this is the case, [contact us](
https://www.firezone.dev/contact/sales) about a custom integration.
