website/src/app/kb/architecture/critical-sequences/readme.mdx, before:

import SupportOptions from "@/components/SupportOptions";
import NextStep from "@/components/NextStep";
import Alert from "@/components/DocsAlert";
import Link from "next/link";
import Image from "next/image";

# Architecture: Critical Sequences

Firezone is a distributed system with many moving parts, but some parts are
especially critical to the integrity of the entire system:

- [Authentication](#authentication): User authentication, usually with an
  identity provider.
- [Policy evaluation](#policy-evaluation): Deciding whether to allow or deny a
  connection request.
- [Detailed Connection Setup](#detailed-connection-setup): How connections
  between Clients and Gateways are established.
- [DNS resolution](#dns-resolution): Resolving DNS-based Resources.
- [High availability](#high-availability): How Firezone achieves high
  availability through load balancing and automatic failover.

These will be explained in more detail below.

## Authentication

Firezone authenticates users using two primary methods:

- [Email (OTP)](/kb/authenticate/email): Users receive a one-time password (OTP)
  via email.
- [OpenID Connect](/kb/authenticate/oidc): Users authenticate with an identity
  provider that supports
  [OpenID Connect (OIDC)](https://openid.net/developers/how-connect-works/).

The authentication process for each is similar. Both methods begin the
authentication process at your Firezone account's sign in page:
`https://app.firezone.dev/<your-account>`.

However, the OIDC flow redirects the user to the identity provider for
authentication before the final redirect back to Firezone.

Here's how the authentication flow works:

<Link
  target="_blank"
  href="/images/kb/architecture/critical-sequences/authentication.svg"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/architecture/critical-sequences/authentication.svg"
    alt="Firezone authentication sequence diagram"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

1. User clicks `Sign in` from the Client.
1. The Client generates random 32-byte `state` and `nonce` values. These are
   used to prevent certain kinds of forgery and injection attacks.
1. A browser window opens to your account's sign in page,
   `https://app.firezone.dev/<your-account>` containing the `nonce` and `state`
   parameters.
1. The user chooses which authentication method to use. If OIDC, the user is
   redirected out to the identity provider.
1. After successfully authenticating, the user is redirected back to the admin
   portal.
1. The admin portal mints a Firezone `token` created from the `nonce` parameter
   and other information.
1. The admin portal issues a final redirect to
   `firezone-fd0020211111://handle_client_sign_in_callback` with the `token` and
   `state` parameters from the initial request.
1. The Client receives this callback URL and validates the `state` parameter
   matches what it originally sent. This prevents other applications from
   injecting tokens into the Client's callback handler.
1. The Client saves this `token` in a platform-specific secure storage
   mechanism, for example Keychain on macOS and iOS.
1. The Client now has a valid `token` and uses it to authenticate with the
   control plane API.
1. The authentication process is complete.

## Policy evaluation

Policy evaluation is the process the
[Policy Engine](/kb/architecture/core-components#policy-engine) uses to decide
whether to allow or deny a connection request from a Client to a Resource.

If the request is allowed, connection setup information is sent to the Client
and the appropriate Gateway. If the request is denied, it's logged and then
dropped. This ensures that Clients are only connected to Gateways that are
serving Resources the User is allowed to access.

<Alert color="info">
  Connections in Firezone are **always** default-deny. Policies must be created
  to allow access.
</Alert>

Here's how the process works:

<Link
  target="_blank"
  href="/images/kb/architecture/critical-sequences/policy-evaluation.svg"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/architecture/critical-sequences/policy-evaluation.svg"
    alt="Firezone policy evaluation sequence diagram"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

1. The User attempts to access a Resource, e.g. `10.10.10.10`.
1. The Client sees the request and opens a connection request to the Policy
   Engine.
1. The Policy Engine evaluates the request against the configured Policies in
   your account based on factors such as the Groups the user is a part of, which
   Resource is being accessed, and so forth. If a match is found, the connection
   is allowed. If no match is found, the connection is dropped.
1. If the connection is allowed, the Policy Engine sends the Client the
   WireGuard keys and NAT traversal information for the Gateway that will serve
   the Resource.
1. The Policy Engine sends similar details to the Gateway.
1. The Client and Gateway establish a WireGuard tunnel, and the Gateway sets up
   a forwarding rule to the Resource.
1. Connection setup is complete. The User can now access the Resource.

Since the Client only receives WireGuard keys and NAT traversal information when
a connection is allowed, **it's not possible** for a Client to exchange packets
with the Gateway until explicitly allowed by the Policy Engine.

This means **Gateways remain invisible to the outside world**, helping to
protect against classes of attacks that perimeter-based models may be
susceptible to, such as DDoS attacks.

## Detailed Connection Setup

The above "Policy evalation" section touches on this topic briefly in step 6.
This section here describes in more detail, how this connection is established.

Firezone supports NAT traversal which means that neither the Client nor the
Gateway need to be exposed to the public Internet. Instead of having to open and
forward a port on the NAT device, direct connections are established via a
technique called "hole-punching". In case that fails, the connection falls-back
to using a TURN server. We operate TURN servers in every region offered by Azure
to minimize the overhead, regardless of where you are in the world.

To establish connections, Firezone implements the
[Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) RFC](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8445).
ICE is essentially an algorithm where two peers that would like to connect to
each other first perform what is called "candidate gathering", they then test
these candidates and nominate the best one.

Once ICE is finshed, the nominated candidate pair is used to handshake a
WireGuard session, which then allows encrypted packets to be sent back and
forth.

### Phase 1: Candidate gathering

Candidates are socket addresses a peer can send data from and receive data on.

- **host-candidates**: The most obvious kind of candidate. Directly corresponds
  to the IP and port of the local network interface of a listening socket.
- **server-reflexive candidates**: These correspond to the IP and port that a
  remote (usually a STUN or TURN server) observes as the source address and port
  for packets sent from a peer. In other words, the public IP of e.g. your home
  router.
- **relay candidates**: Relay candidates are sockets allocated on a TURN server.
  Traffic received on such a socket is forwarded to the owner of that socket. In
  Firezone, both Clients and Gateways immediately allocate such a socket with
  the two geographically closest TURN servers once you sign in, even before you
  establish any connections. This ensures we have our entire set of candidates
  ready by the time we want to create a connection.

### Phase 2: Testing candidates

Once we have gathered all relevant candidates, connecting to another peer is as
simple as exchanging and testing them. As we don't have a direct connection yet,
this step is done via the Firezone control plane API. ICE then forms an NxM
matrix of all candidates and starts testing them for connectivity. Testing a
so-called candidate pair boils down to sending a UDP packet to the remote. If we
receive an answer back, the test is successful. If we don't receive anything
after 12 attempts, we consider the candidate pair failed. All successful
candidate pairs are then ranked by priority such that direct connections are
considered better than those involving a TURN server. The best candidate pair is
then "nominated" and declared as the result of the ICE algorithm.

### A note on hole-punching

The somewhat magical aspect of hole-punching actually happens entirely implicit
as part of this process. Most NAT devices are inherently stateful in that they
remember the source port of an outgoing packet and allow packets arriving at the
same port back-in. Both peers in the above algorithm are forming the same NxM
matrix of candidates, and hence are sending packets to and from the same socket
address. For example, assume a Client's public IP is `35.10.10.10` and the
Gateway's public IP is `40.10.10.10`. Both Firezone Clients and Firezone
Gateways are listening on port 52625 by default. The NxM matrix will therefore
include a pair of `35.10.0.10:52625 <> 40.10.10.10:52625` on both sides.
Consequently, the packet sent from the Gateway towards `35.10.10.10:52625` looks
like the "response" to the packet sent by the Client towards `40.10.10.10:52625`
and they are therefore forwarded through the NATs on either end.

### Phase 3: WireGuard handshake

WireGuard itself does not establish any connections and instead just represents
a state machine that manages key rotation and encryption and decryption of
packets.

With the "nominated" candidate pair as the output of the ICE algorithm, we now
have a pair of socket addresses for exchanging UDP packets between Client and
Gateway. WireGuard's handshake requires prior knowledge of the remote's public
key. Similar to the candidates, these keys have also been exchanged between
Client and Gateway via the Firezone control protocol API. Using these public
keys, Client and Gateway exchange secret session keys via Diffie-Hellman. These
session keys are then used to encrypt packets and are rotated every 2 minutes.

### A note on relayed connections

Relayed connections, i.e. those involving a TURN server work in a very similar
way and are in fact transparent to the WireGuard handshake and the encrypted
packets. For relayed connections, the output of ICE is still a candidate pair,
except that the "local" side of the pair is the allocated socket on the TURN
server. In other words, if a relayed candidate pair is nominated, then none of
the candidate pairs involving host and server-reflexive candidates have been
successful and thus a relay candidate turned out to be the one with the highest
priority.

In order to send from a socket on a TURN server, the sender forms a so-called
"data channel" packet which is a light-weight wrapper with a 4-byte header that
refers to a previously allocated channel. Allocating such a channel is part of
protocol between a TURN client and server. All packets in such a channel are
forwarded to the same remote. Upon receiving such a channel-data packet, the
TURN server strips off the header and sends the remaining payload to the
designated peer. To improve their efficiency and throughput, Firezone's TURN
servers make use of eBPF eXpress data path (XDP) and implement this routing of
channel-data packets directly in the kernel. Specifically, in the network card
driver even before the packet gets parsed.

To the receiver of the packet, this process is transparent. They simple send and
receive UDP traffic from an IP and port and outside of applying heuristics based
on e.g. IP location, cannot differentiate between this socket being a relay or
the remote peer directly.

## DNS resolution

Secure DNS resolution is a critical function in most organizations.

Firezone employs a unique, granular approach to split DNS to ensure traffic
intended **only** for DNS-based Resources is routed through Firezone, leaving
other traffic untouched -- even when resolved IP addresses overlap.

To achieve this, Firezone embeds a tiny, in-memory DNS resolver in each Client
that intercepts all DNS queries on the system.

When the resolver sees a query that doesn't match a known Resource, it operates
in pass-through mode, forwarding the the query to the system's default resolvers
or [configured upstream resolvers](/kb/deploy/dns) in your account.

If the query matches a Resource, however, the following happens:

1. The resolver generates a special, internal IP from the range `100.96.0.0/11`
   or `fd00:2021:1111:8000::/107` and stores an internal mapping of this IP to
   the DNS name originally queried. The IP is returned to the application that
   made the query.
1. When the Client sees traffic for the IP, it triggers connection setup. The
   Client sends a request to the Policy Engine for evaluation. If the request is
   allowed, the Policy Engine finds an appropriate Gateway to route the traffic.
1. If the Policy Engine approves the Client's request, it sends the Client the
   WireGuard keys and NAT traversal information for the Gateway that will serve
   the Resource.
1. Once the connection is established (and every time an application re-queries
   a DNS name), the Client sends a message using Firezone's p2p control protocol
   to the Gateway, triggering a DNS query using the Gateway's system resolver
   for the DNS name. The result of this DNS query is stored on the Gateway in a
   lookup table and cached for 30 seconds.
1. Traffic from the application flows, and the Gateway translates the internal
   IP back to the actual IP address of the Resource, forwarding the traffic
   accordingly.

This is why you'll see DNS-based Resources resolve to IPs such as `100.96.0.1`
while the Client is signed in:

```text
> nslookup github.com

Server: 100.100.111.1
Address: 100.100.111.1#53

Non-authoritative answer:

Name: github.com
Address: 100.96.0.1
```

Notice in the above process that at no point does the Client's system resolver
see the actual IP address of the Resource. This ensures that your DNS data
remains private and secure.

For a deeper dive into how (and why) DNS works this way in Firezone, see the
[How DNS works in Firezone](/blog/how-dns-works-in-firezone) article.

### Why Firezone uses a mapped address for DNS Resources

This is a common source of confusion among new Firezone users, so it's helpful
to explain why Firezone uses mapped IPs for DNS Resources instead of simply
using the actual resolved IP.

Consider the case where two DNS Resources resolve to the same IP address, such
as when Name-based virtual hosting is used to host two web applications on the
same server:

- `gitlab.company.com` resolves to IP `172.16.0.5`
- `jenkins.company.com` _also_ resolves to IP `172.16.0.5`

Remember that routing happens **at the IP level**. We can't independently route
packets for the same IP to two different places. If Firezone used the Resource's
actual IP address to route packets, the User would be able to access
`jenkins.company.com` if they were granted access only to `gitlab.company.com`.

Using mapped IPs allows Firezone to securely route DNS Resources **no matter how
many other services share the same IP address**.

## High availability

Firezone was designed from the ground up to support high availability
requirements. This is achieved through a combination of **load balancing** and
**automatic failover**, described below.

### Load balancing

When a Client wants to connect to a Resource, Firezone randomly selects a
healthy Gateway in the Site to handle the request. The Client maintains the
connection to that Gateway until either the Client disconnects or the Gateway
becomes unhealthy.

This effectively shards Client connections across all Gateways in a Site,
achieving higher overall throughput than otherwise possible with a single
Gateway.

### Automatic failover

Two or more Gateways deployed within a Site provide automatic failover in the
event of a Gateway failure.

Here's how it works:

1. When the admin portal detects a particular Gateway is unhealthy, it will stop
   using it for new connection requests to Resources in the Site.
1. Existing Clients will remain connected to the Gateway until they themselves
   detect it to be unhealthy.
1. Clients identify unhealthy gateways using keepalive timers. If the timer
   expires, the Client will disconnect from the unhealthy Gateway and request a
   new, healthy one from the portal.
1. The Client keepalive timer expires after **10 seconds**. This is the maximum
   time it takes for existing Client connections to be rerouted to a healthy
   Gateway in the event of a Gateway failure.

By using two independent health checks in the portal and the Client, Firezone
ensures that temporary network issues between the Client and portal do not
interrupt existing connections to healthy Gateways.

{(<NextStep href="/kb/architecture/security-controls">Next: Security
controls</NextStep>)}

<SupportOptions />

Commit message:

Explain HP step by step

website/src/app/kb/architecture/critical-sequences/readme.mdx, after:

import SupportOptions from "@/components/SupportOptions";
import NextStep from "@/components/NextStep";
import Alert from "@/components/DocsAlert";
import Link from "next/link";
import Image from "next/image";

# Architecture: Critical Sequences

Firezone is a distributed system with many moving parts, but some parts are
especially critical to the integrity of the entire system:

- [Authentication](#authentication): User authentication, usually with an
  identity provider.
- [Policy evaluation](#policy-evaluation): Deciding whether to allow or deny a
  connection request.
- [Detailed Connection Setup](#detailed-connection-setup): How connections
  between Clients and Gateways are established.
- [DNS resolution](#dns-resolution): Resolving DNS-based Resources.
- [High availability](#high-availability): How Firezone achieves high
  availability through load balancing and automatic failover.

These will be explained in more detail below.

## Authentication

Firezone authenticates users using two primary methods:

- [Email (OTP)](/kb/authenticate/email): Users receive a one-time password (OTP)
  via email.
- [OpenID Connect](/kb/authenticate/oidc): Users authenticate with an identity
  provider that supports
  [OpenID Connect (OIDC)](https://openid.net/developers/how-connect-works/).

The authentication process for each is similar. Both methods begin the
authentication process at your Firezone account's sign in page:
`https://app.firezone.dev/<your-account>`.

However, the OIDC flow redirects the user to the identity provider for
authentication before the final redirect back to Firezone.

Here's how the authentication flow works:

<Link
  target="_blank"
  href="/images/kb/architecture/critical-sequences/authentication.svg"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/architecture/critical-sequences/authentication.svg"
    alt="Firezone authentication sequence diagram"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

1. User clicks `Sign in` from the Client.
1. The Client generates random 32-byte `state` and `nonce` values. These are
   used to prevent certain kinds of forgery and injection attacks.
1. A browser window opens to your account's sign in page,
   `https://app.firezone.dev/<your-account>` containing the `nonce` and `state`
   parameters.
1. The user chooses which authentication method to use. If OIDC, the user is
   redirected out to the identity provider.
1. After successfully authenticating, the user is redirected back to the admin
   portal.
1. The admin portal mints a Firezone `token` created from the `nonce` parameter
   and other information.
1. The admin portal issues a final redirect to
   `firezone-fd0020211111://handle_client_sign_in_callback` with the `token` and
   `state` parameters from the initial request.
1. The Client receives this callback URL and validates the `state` parameter
   matches what it originally sent. This prevents other applications from
   injecting tokens into the Client's callback handler.
1. The Client saves this `token` in a platform-specific secure storage
   mechanism, for example Keychain on macOS and iOS.
1. The Client now has a valid `token` and uses it to authenticate with the
   control plane API.
1. The authentication process is complete.

## Policy evaluation

Policy evaluation is the process the
[Policy Engine](/kb/architecture/core-components#policy-engine) uses to decide
whether to allow or deny a connection request from a Client to a Resource.

If the request is allowed, connection setup information is sent to the Client
and the appropriate Gateway. If the request is denied, it's logged and then
dropped. This ensures that Clients are only connected to Gateways that are
serving Resources the User is allowed to access.

<Alert color="info">
  Connections in Firezone are **always** default-deny. Policies must be created
  to allow access.
</Alert>

Here's how the process works:

<Link
  target="_blank"
  href="/images/kb/architecture/critical-sequences/policy-evaluation.svg"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/architecture/critical-sequences/policy-evaluation.svg"
    alt="Firezone policy evaluation sequence diagram"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

1. The User attempts to access a Resource, e.g. `10.10.10.10`.
1. The Client sees the request and opens a connection request to the Policy
   Engine.
1. The Policy Engine evaluates the request against the configured Policies in
   your account based on factors such as the Groups the user is a part of, which
   Resource is being accessed, and so forth. If a match is found, the connection
   is allowed. If no match is found, the connection is dropped.
1. If the connection is allowed, the Policy Engine sends the Client the
   WireGuard keys and NAT traversal information for the Gateway that will serve
   the Resource.
1. The Policy Engine sends similar details to the Gateway.
1. The Client and Gateway establish a WireGuard tunnel, and the Gateway sets up
   a forwarding rule to the Resource.
1. Connection setup is complete. The User can now access the Resource.

Since the Client only receives WireGuard keys and NAT traversal information when
a connection is allowed, **it's not possible** for a Client to exchange packets
with the Gateway until explicitly allowed by the Policy Engine.

This means **Gateways remain invisible to the outside world**, helping to
protect against classes of attacks that perimeter-based models may be
susceptible to, such as DDoS attacks.

## Detailed Connection Setup

The above "Policy evalation" section touches on this topic briefly in step 6.
This section here describes in more detail, how this connection is established.

Firezone supports NAT traversal which means that neither the Client nor the
Gateway need to be exposed to the public Internet. Instead of having to open and
forward a port on the NAT device, direct connections are established via a
technique called "hole-punching". In case that fails, the connection falls-back
to using a TURN server. We operate TURN servers in every region offered by Azure
to minimize the overhead, regardless of where you are in the world.

To establish connections, Firezone implements the
[Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) RFC](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8445).
ICE is essentially an algorithm where two peers that would like to connect to
each other first perform what is called "candidate gathering", they then test
these candidates and nominate the best one.

Once ICE is finshed, the nominated candidate pair is used to handshake a
WireGuard session, which then allows encrypted packets to be sent back and
forth.

### Phase 1: Candidate gathering

Candidates are socket addresses a peer can send data from and receive data on.

- **host-candidates**: The most obvious kind of candidate. Directly corresponds
  to the IP and port of the local network interface of a listening socket.
- **server-reflexive candidates**: These correspond to the IP and port that a
  remote (usually a STUN or TURN server) observes as the source address and port
  for packets sent from a peer. In other words, the public IP of e.g. your home
  router.
- **relay candidates**: Relay candidates are sockets allocated on a TURN server.
  Traffic received on such a socket is forwarded to the owner of that socket. In
  Firezone, both Clients and Gateways immediately allocate such a socket with
  the two geographically closest TURN servers once you sign in, even before you
  establish any connections. This ensures we have our entire set of candidates
  ready by the time we want to create a connection.

### Phase 2: Testing candidates

Once we have gathered all relevant candidates, connecting to another peer is as
simple as exchanging and testing them. As we don't have a direct connection yet,
this step is done via the Firezone control plane API. ICE then forms an NxM
matrix of all candidates and starts testing them for connectivity. Testing a
so-called candidate pair boils down to sending a UDP packet to the remote. If we
receive an answer back, the test is successful. If we don't receive anything
after 12 attempts, we consider the candidate pair failed. All successful
candidate pairs are then ranked by priority such that direct connections are
considered better than those involving a TURN server. The best candidate pair is
then "nominated" and declared as the result of the ICE algorithm.

### A note on hole-punching

The somewhat magical aspect of hole-punching actually happens entirely implicit
as part of this process. Most NAT devices are inherently stateful in that they
remember the source port of an outgoing packet and allow packets arriving at the
same port back-in. Both peers in the above algorithm are forming the same NxM
matrix of candidates, and hence are sending packets **to** the same socket
address the other one is sending **from**.

For example, assume a Client's public IP is `35.10.10.10` and the Gateway's
public IP is `40.10.10.10`. Both Firezone Clients and Firezone Gateways are
listening on port 52625 by default. The NxM matrix will therefore include a pair
of `35.10.0.10:52625 <> 40.10.10.10:52625` on both sides.

1. Client sends a UDP packet from its local socket towards `40.10.10.10:52625`
1. Gateway sends a UDP packet from its local socket towards `35.10.10.10.52625`
1. NAT device on the Client's network rewrites the source of the outgoing packet
   to `35.10.10.10:52625`. It also registers a new "connection" on this port.
1. NAT device on the Gateways's network rewrites the source of the outgoing
   packet to `40.10.10.10:52625`. It also registers a new "connection" on this
   port.
1. Packet from the Client arrives at the Gateway's NAT device. The lookup by
   source address (`35.10.10.10:52625`) yields the connection created in step 3.
1. Packet from the Gateway arrives at the Client's NAT device. The lookup by
   source address (`40.10.10.10:52625`) yields the connection created in step 4.

Due to differing latencies, the timing of these steps can vary in practise. That
isn't an issue though as UDP is by design stateless and the next packet will
simply be allowed through.

### Phase 3: WireGuard handshake

WireGuard itself does not establish any connections and instead just represents
a state machine that manages key rotation and encryption and decryption of
packets.

With the "nominated" candidate pair as the output of the ICE algorithm, we now
have a pair of socket addresses for exchanging UDP packets between Client and
Gateway. WireGuard's handshake requires prior knowledge of the remote's public
key. Similar to the candidates, these keys have also been exchanged between
Client and Gateway via the Firezone control protocol API. Using these public
keys, Client and Gateway exchange secret session keys via Diffie-Hellman. These
session keys are then used to encrypt packets and are rotated every 2 minutes.

### A note on relayed connections

Relayed connections, i.e. those involving a TURN server work in a very similar
way and are in fact transparent to the WireGuard handshake and the encrypted
packets. For relayed connections, the output of ICE is still a candidate pair,
except that the "local" side of the pair is the allocated socket on the TURN
server. In other words, if a relayed candidate pair is nominated, then none of
the candidate pairs involving host and server-reflexive candidates have been
successful and thus a relay candidate turned out to be the one with the highest
priority.

In order to send from a socket on a TURN server, the sender forms a so-called
"data channel" packet which is a light-weight wrapper with a 4-byte header that
refers to a previously allocated channel. Allocating such a channel is part of
protocol between a TURN client and server. All packets in such a channel are
forwarded to the same remote. Upon receiving such a channel-data packet, the
TURN server strips off the header and sends the remaining payload to the
designated peer. To improve their efficiency and throughput, Firezone's TURN
servers make use of eBPF eXpress data path (XDP) and implement this routing of
channel-data packets directly in the kernel. Specifically, in the network card
driver even before the packet gets parsed.

To the receiver of the packet, this process is transparent. They simple send and
receive UDP traffic from an IP and port and outside of applying heuristics based
on e.g. IP location, cannot differentiate between this socket being a relay or
the remote peer directly.

## DNS resolution

Secure DNS resolution is a critical function in most organizations.

Firezone employs a unique, granular approach to split DNS to ensure traffic
intended **only** for DNS-based Resources is routed through Firezone, leaving
other traffic untouched -- even when resolved IP addresses overlap.

To achieve this, Firezone embeds a tiny, in-memory DNS resolver in each Client
that intercepts all DNS queries on the system.

When the resolver sees a query that doesn't match a known Resource, it operates
in pass-through mode, forwarding the the query to the system's default resolvers
or [configured upstream resolvers](/kb/deploy/dns) in your account.

If the query matches a Resource, however, the following happens:

1. The resolver generates a special, internal IP from the range `100.96.0.0/11`
   or `fd00:2021:1111:8000::/107` and stores an internal mapping of this IP to
   the DNS name originally queried. The IP is returned to the application that
   made the query.
1. When the Client sees traffic for the IP, it triggers connection setup. The
   Client sends a request to the Policy Engine for evaluation. If the request is
   allowed, the Policy Engine finds an appropriate Gateway to route the traffic.
1. If the Policy Engine approves the Client's request, it sends the Client the
   WireGuard keys and NAT traversal information for the Gateway that will serve
   the Resource.
1. Once the connection is established (and every time an application re-queries
   a DNS name), the Client sends a message using Firezone's p2p control protocol
   to the Gateway, triggering a DNS query using the Gateway's system resolver
   for the DNS name. The result of this DNS query is stored on the Gateway in a
   lookup table and cached for 30 seconds.
1. Traffic from the application flows, and the Gateway translates the internal
   IP back to the actual IP address of the Resource, forwarding the traffic
   accordingly.

This is why you'll see DNS-based Resources resolve to IPs such as `100.96.0.1`
while the Client is signed in:

```text
> nslookup github.com

Server: 100.100.111.1
Address: 100.100.111.1#53

Non-authoritative answer:

Name: github.com
Address: 100.96.0.1
```

Notice in the above process that at no point does the Client's system resolver
see the actual IP address of the Resource. This ensures that your DNS data
remains private and secure.

For a deeper dive into how (and why) DNS works this way in Firezone, see the
[How DNS works in Firezone](/blog/how-dns-works-in-firezone) article.

### Why Firezone uses a mapped address for DNS Resources

This is a common source of confusion among new Firezone users, so it's helpful
to explain why Firezone uses mapped IPs for DNS Resources instead of simply
using the actual resolved IP.

Consider the case where two DNS Resources resolve to the same IP address, such
as when Name-based virtual hosting is used to host two web applications on the
same server:

- `gitlab.company.com` resolves to IP `172.16.0.5`
- `jenkins.company.com` _also_ resolves to IP `172.16.0.5`

Remember that routing happens **at the IP level**. We can't independently route
packets for the same IP to two different places. If Firezone used the Resource's
actual IP address to route packets, the User would be able to access
`jenkins.company.com` if they were granted access only to `gitlab.company.com`.

Using mapped IPs allows Firezone to securely route DNS Resources **no matter how
many other services share the same IP address**.

## High availability

Firezone was designed from the ground up to support high availability
requirements. This is achieved through a combination of **load balancing** and
**automatic failover**, described below.

### Load balancing

When a Client wants to connect to a Resource, Firezone randomly selects a
healthy Gateway in the Site to handle the request. The Client maintains the
connection to that Gateway until either the Client disconnects or the Gateway
becomes unhealthy.

This effectively shards Client connections across all Gateways in a Site,
achieving higher overall throughput than otherwise possible with a single
Gateway.

### Automatic failover

Two or more Gateways deployed within a Site provide automatic failover in the
event of a Gateway failure.

Here's how it works:

1. When the admin portal detects a particular Gateway is unhealthy, it will stop
   using it for new connection requests to Resources in the Site.
1. Existing Clients will remain connected to the Gateway until they themselves
   detect it to be unhealthy.
1. Clients identify unhealthy gateways using keepalive timers. If the timer
   expires, the Client will disconnect from the unhealthy Gateway and request a
   new, healthy one from the portal.
1. The Client keepalive timer expires after **10 seconds**. This is the maximum
   time it takes for existing Client connections to be rerouted to a healthy
   Gateway in the event of a Gateway failure.

By using two independent health checks in the portal and the Client, Firezone
ensures that temporary network issues between the Client and portal do not
interrupt existing connections to healthy Gateways.

{(<NextStep href="/kb/architecture/security-controls">Next: Security
controls</NextStep>)}

<SupportOptions />
