website/src/app/kb/client-apps/windows-headless-client/readme.mdx, before:

import Alert from "@/components/DocsAlert";
import SupportOptions from "@/components/SupportOptions";
import { TabsItem, TabsGroup } from "@/components/Tabs";

# Windows Headless Client

Headless Clients are designed to authenticate with long-lived
[service account](/kb/authenticate/service-accounts) tokens to enable
system-to-system connectivity where a user isn't present to authenticate with
your identity provider interactively.

<Alert color="info">
  If you're looking for a Windows desktop Client that authenticates with your
  identity provider instead, see the [Windows GUI
  Client](/kb/client-apps/windows-gui-client).
</Alert>

## Prerequisites

- **Windows 10** or higher, or **Windows Server 2016** or higher
- **x86-64** CPU

## Installation

<TabsGroup>
<TabsItem title="exe" active>

Download the Windows headless Client from our [changelog page](/changelog), or
use the direct link below:

- [Download the Windows Headless Client for `x86_64`](/dl/firezone-client-headless-windows/latest/x86_64)

The client can then be run from any elevated command prompt. No installation is
necessary.

</TabsItem>
<TabsItem title="winget">

From a terminal, run the following command to install the headless client.

```pwsh
winget install Firezone.Client.Headless
```

</TabsItem>
</TabsGroup>

## Usage

### Running the Client

<Alert color="warning">
  <strong>Note:</strong> The Windows Headless Client must be run with
  administrator privileges.
</Alert>

Headless Clients require a service account token to authenticate to Firezone.
You can generate a token using the instructions in the
[service account](/kb/authenticate/service-accounts) documentation.

Once you have a token, you can run the client from an elevated powershell prompt
with a few environment variables like so:

```pwsh
> $env:FIREZONE_TOKEN="YOUR_TOKEN_HERE"
> $env:RUST_LOG="info"
> .\firezone-client-headless-windows_<VERSION>_x86_64.exe
```

By default, the client only logs to `stdout` on level `error` and above. Set
`RUST_LOG="info"` to see more logs, and `LOG_DIR` to write logs to disk. For a
full list of environment variables, see
[below](#environment-variable-reference).

Most environment variables can also be set in the command line. For a full list,
see [help output](#help-output).

### Disabling split DNS

By default, Split DNS is **enabled** for the Windows Headless Client. In most
cases, this is what you want.

If you're experiencing DNS issues or incompatibilities with other DNS software
on your system, and you don't need to access DNS Resources, you can disable
Split DNS.

To do this, set the `FIREZONE_DNS_CONTROL` environment variable to `disabled`.

[Read more](/kb/deploy/dns) about how DNS works in Firezone.

### Environment variable reference

| Variable Name          | Default Value       | Description                                                                                                                                                                   |
| ---------------------- | ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `FIREZONE_TOKEN`       |                     | Service account token generated by the portal to authenticate this Client.                                                                                                    |
| `FIREZONE_NAME`        | `<system hostname>` | Friendly name for this client to display in the UI.                                                                                                                           |
| `FIREZONE_ID`          |                     | Identifier used by the portal to unqiuely identify this client.                                                                                                               |
| `FIREZONE_DNS_CONTROL` | (blank)             | The DNS control method to use. The default is `nrpt`, the only supported option on Windows. Set this to `disabled` to disable DNS control to route IP or CIDR resources only. |
| `LOG_DIR`              |                     | File logging directory. Should be a path that's writeable by the current user. If unset, logs will be written to `stdout` only.                                               |
| `RUST_LOG`             | `error`             | Log level for the client. Set to `debug` for verbose logging. Read more about configuring Rust log levels [here](https://docs.rs/env_logger/latest/env_logger/).              |

### Help output

```text
> .\firezone-client-headless-windows_1.4.2_x86_64.exe --help
Error: Command-line args for the headless Client

Usage: firezone-client-headless-windows_1.4.2_x86_64.exe [OPTIONS] [COMMAND]

Commands:
  help        Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)

Options:
      --dns-control <DNS_CONTROL>
          [env: FIREZONE_DNS_CONTROL=]
          [default: nrpt]

          Possible values:
          - disabled: Explicitly disable DNS control
          - nrpt:     NRPT, the only DNS control method we use on Windows

  -l, --log-dir <LOG_DIR>
          File logging directory. Should be a path that's writeable by the current user

          [env: LOG_DIR=]

  -m, --max-partition-time <MAX_PARTITION_TIME>
          Maximum length of time to retry connecting to the portal if we're having internet issues or it's down. Accepts human times. e.g. "5m" or "1h" or "30d"

          [env: MAX_PARTITION_TIME=]

      --firezone-name <FIREZONE_NAME>
          Friendly name for this client to display in the UI

          [env: FIREZONE_NAME=]

  -i, --firezone-id <FIREZONE_ID>
          Identifier used by the portal to identify and display the device

          [env: FIREZONE_ID=]

      --no-telemetry
          Disable sentry.io crash-reporting agent

          [env: FIREZONE_NO_TELEMETRY=]

      --token-path <TOKEN_PATH>
          A filesystem path where the token can be found

          [env: FIREZONE_TOKEN_PATH=]
          [default: C:\ProgramData\dev.firezone.client\token.txt]

  -h, --help
          Print help (see a summary with '-h')

  -V, --version
          Print version
```

## Upgrading

1. Download a newer binary from one of the [links above](#installation).
1. Stop the running Client.
1. Replace the existing binary with the new one.
1. Start the Client with the same environment variables as before.

## Diagnostic logs

By default, the Windows headless Client does not write logs to disk. You can
enable file logging by setting the `LOG_DIR` environment variable to a path that
the user running the Client can write to.

This will write logs at the level specified by the `RUST_LOG` environment
variable (by default `error`).

## Uninstalling

1. Stop the running Client
1. Delete the binary file from your system

## Troubleshooting

### Check if Firezone is controlling DNS

In the Start Menu, search for "Windows Powershell". Open it and run this
command:

```pwsh
Get-DnsClientNrptPolicy
```

Firezone Split DNS example:

```text
Namespace                        : .
QueryPolicy                      :
SecureNameQueryFallback          :
DirectAccessIPsecCARestriction   :
DirectAccessProxyName            :
DirectAccessDnsServers           :
DirectAccessEnabled              :
DirectAccessProxyType            : NoProxy
DirectAccessQueryIPsecEncryption :
DirectAccessQueryIPsecRequired   : False
NameServers                      : {100.100.111.1, fd00:2021:1111:8000:100:100:111:0}
DnsSecIPsecCARestriction         :
DnsSecQueryIPsecEncryption       :
DnsSecQueryIPsecRequired         : False
DnsSecValidationRequired         : False
NameEncoding                     : Utf8WithoutMapping
```

If Firezone's Split DNS is not active, the output will be empty.

### Revert Firezone DNS control

If Firezone crashes and does not revert control of the system's DNS, you can
revert it manually with this command:

```pwsh
Get-DnsClientNrptRule | where Comment -eq firezone-fd0020211111 | foreach { Remove-DnsClientNrptRule -Name $_.Name -Force }
```

## Known issues

- If a search domain is applied, DNS suffix search list of other adapters are
  ignored. [#8430](https://github.com/firezone/firezone/issues/8430).
- The Windows client is not yet available for Arm64 devices
  [#2992](https://github.com/firezone/firezone/issues/2992)

<SupportOptions />

Commit message:

docs: document activating internet resource for headless

website/src/app/kb/client-apps/windows-headless-client/readme.mdx, after:

import Alert from "@/components/DocsAlert";
import SupportOptions from "@/components/SupportOptions";
import { TabsItem, TabsGroup } from "@/components/Tabs";

# Windows Headless Client

Headless Clients are designed to authenticate with long-lived
[service account](/kb/authenticate/service-accounts) tokens to enable
system-to-system connectivity where a user isn't present to authenticate with
your identity provider interactively.

<Alert color="info">
  If you're looking for a Windows desktop Client that authenticates with your
  identity provider instead, see the [Windows GUI
  Client](/kb/client-apps/windows-gui-client).
</Alert>

## Prerequisites

- **Windows 10** or higher, or **Windows Server 2016** or higher
- **x86-64** CPU

## Installation

<TabsGroup>
<TabsItem title="exe" active>

Download the Windows headless Client from our [changelog page](/changelog), or
use the direct link below:

- [Download the Windows Headless Client for `x86_64`](/dl/firezone-client-headless-windows/latest/x86_64)

The client can then be run from any elevated command prompt. No installation is
necessary.

</TabsItem>
<TabsItem title="winget">

From a terminal, run the following command to install the headless client.

```pwsh
winget install Firezone.Client.Headless
```

</TabsItem>
</TabsGroup>

## Usage

### Running the Client

<Alert color="warning">
  <strong>Note:</strong> The Windows Headless Client must be run with
  administrator privileges.
</Alert>

Headless Clients require a service account token to authenticate to Firezone.
You can generate a token using the instructions in the
[service account](/kb/authenticate/service-accounts) documentation.

Once you have a token, you can run the client from an elevated powershell prompt
with a few environment variables like so:

```pwsh
> $env:FIREZONE_TOKEN="YOUR_TOKEN_HERE"
> $env:RUST_LOG="info"
> .\firezone-client-headless-windows_<VERSION>_x86_64.exe
```

By default, the client only logs to `stdout` on level `error` and above. Set
`RUST_LOG="info"` to see more logs, and `LOG_DIR` to write logs to disk. For a
full list of environment variables, see
[below](#environment-variable-reference).

Most environment variables can also be set in the command line. For a full list,
see [help output](#help-output).

### Disabling split DNS

By default, Split DNS is **enabled** for the Windows Headless Client. In most
cases, this is what you want.

If you're experiencing DNS issues or incompatibilities with other DNS software
on your system, and you don't need to access DNS Resources, you can disable
Split DNS.

To do this, set the `FIREZONE_DNS_CONTROL` environment variable to `disabled`.

[Read more](/kb/deploy/dns) about how DNS works in Firezone.

### Environment variable reference

| Variable Name                         | Default Value       | Description                                                                                                                                                                   |
| ------------------------------------- | ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `FIREZONE_TOKEN`                      |                     | Service account token generated by the portal to authenticate this Client.                                                                                                    |
| `FIREZONE_ACTIVATE_INTERNET_RESOURCE` |                     | Whether to activate the Internet Resource for this Client. Default is blank, which is disabled. Set to `1` or `true` to enable.                                               |
| `FIREZONE_NAME`                       | `<system hostname>` | Friendly name for this client to display in the UI.                                                                                                                           |
| `FIREZONE_ID`                         |                     | Identifier used by the portal to unqiuely identify this client.                                                                                                               |
| `FIREZONE_DNS_CONTROL`                | (blank)             | The DNS control method to use. The default is `nrpt`, the only supported option on Windows. Set this to `disabled` to disable DNS control to route IP or CIDR resources only. |
| `LOG_DIR`                             |                     | File logging directory. Should be a path that's writeable by the current user. If unset, logs will be written to `stdout` only.                                               |
| `RUST_LOG`                            | `error`             | Log level for the client. Set to `debug` for verbose logging. Read more about configuring Rust log levels [here](https://docs.rs/env_logger/latest/env_logger/).              |

### Help output

```text
> .\firezone-client-headless-windows_1.4.2_x86_64.exe --help
Error: Command-line args for the headless Client

Usage: firezone-client-headless-windows_1.4.2_x86_64.exe [OPTIONS] [COMMAND]

Commands:
  help        Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)

Options:
      --dns-control <DNS_CONTROL>
          [env: FIREZONE_DNS_CONTROL=]
          [default: nrpt]

          Possible values:
          - disabled: Explicitly disable DNS control
          - nrpt:     NRPT, the only DNS control method we use on Windows

  -l, --log-dir <LOG_DIR>
          File logging directory. Should be a path that's writeable by the current user

          [env: LOG_DIR=]

  -m, --max-partition-time <MAX_PARTITION_TIME>
          Maximum length of time to retry connecting to the portal if we're having internet issues or it's down. Accepts human times. e.g. "5m" or "1h" or "30d"

          [env: MAX_PARTITION_TIME=]

      --firezone-name <FIREZONE_NAME>
          Friendly name for this client to display in the UI

          [env: FIREZONE_NAME=]

  -i, --firezone-id <FIREZONE_ID>
          Identifier used by the portal to identify and display the device

          [env: FIREZONE_ID=]

      --no-telemetry
          Disable sentry.io crash-reporting agent

          [env: FIREZONE_NO_TELEMETRY=]

      --activate-internet-resource
          Activate the Internet Resource for this Client

          [env: FIREZONE_ACTIVATE_INTERNET_RESOURCE=]

      --token-path <TOKEN_PATH>
          A filesystem path where the token can be found

          [env: FIREZONE_TOKEN_PATH=]
          [default: C:\ProgramData\dev.firezone.client\token.txt]

  -h, --help
          Print help (see a summary with '-h')

  -V, --version
          Print version
```

## Upgrading

1. Download a newer binary from one of the [links above](#installation).
1. Stop the running Client.
1. Replace the existing binary with the new one.
1. Start the Client with the same environment variables as before.

## Diagnostic logs

By default, the Windows headless Client does not write logs to disk. You can
enable file logging by setting the `LOG_DIR` environment variable to a path that
the user running the Client can write to.

This will write logs at the level specified by the `RUST_LOG` environment
variable (by default `error`).

## Uninstalling

1. Stop the running Client
1. Delete the binary file from your system

## Troubleshooting

### Check if Firezone is controlling DNS

In the Start Menu, search for "Windows Powershell". Open it and run this
command:

```pwsh
Get-DnsClientNrptPolicy
```

Firezone Split DNS example:

```text
Namespace                        : .
QueryPolicy                      :
SecureNameQueryFallback          :
DirectAccessIPsecCARestriction   :
DirectAccessProxyName            :
DirectAccessDnsServers           :
DirectAccessEnabled              :
DirectAccessProxyType            : NoProxy
DirectAccessQueryIPsecEncryption :
DirectAccessQueryIPsecRequired   : False
NameServers                      : {100.100.111.1, fd00:2021:1111:8000:100:100:111:0}
DnsSecIPsecCARestriction         :
DnsSecQueryIPsecEncryption       :
DnsSecQueryIPsecRequired         : False
DnsSecValidationRequired         : False
NameEncoding                     : Utf8WithoutMapping
```

If Firezone's Split DNS is not active, the output will be empty.

### Revert Firezone DNS control

If Firezone crashes and does not revert control of the system's DNS, you can
revert it manually with this command:

```pwsh
Get-DnsClientNrptRule | where Comment -eq firezone-fd0020211111 | foreach { Remove-DnsClientNrptRule -Name $_.Name -Force }
```

## Known issues

- If a search domain is applied, DNS suffix search list of other adapters are
  ignored. [#8430](https://github.com/firezone/firezone/issues/8430).
- The Windows client is not yet available for Arm64 devices
  [#2992](https://github.com/firezone/firezone/issues/2992)

<SupportOptions />
