docs/docs/deploy/README.mdx, before:

---
title: Deploy
sidebar_position: 2
---

Firezone can be deployed on most Linux servers in minutes. Read more
below to get started.

## Deployment Methods

You have two options for deploying Firezone:

1. [Docker](docker) (recommended)
1. [Omnibus](omnibus)

Docker is the easiest way to install, manage, and upgrade Firezone and is the
preferred method of deployment.

:::note
Chef Infra Client, the configuration system Chef Omnibus relies on, has been
[scheduled for End-of-Life in 2024](https://docs.chef.io/versions/). As such,
Omnibus-based deployments will be deprecated in a future version of Firezone.
To transition to Docker from Omnibus today, follow our [migration guide
](../administer/migrate).
:::

## Prepare to Deploy

Regardless of which deployment method you choose, you'll need to follow the
preparation steps below before deploying Firezone to production.

1. [Create a DNS record](#create-a-dns-record)
1. [Set up SSL](#set-up-ssl)
1. [Open required firewall ports](#open-required-firewall-ports)

### Create a DNS record

Firezone requires a fully-qualified domain name (e.g. `firezone.company.com`)
for production use. You'll need to create the appropriate DNS record at your
registrar to achieve this. Typically this is either an A, CNAME, or AAAA record
depending on your requirements.

### Set up SSL

You'll need a valid SSL certificate to use Firezone in a production capacity.
Firezone supports ACME for automatic provisioning of SSL certificates for both
Docker-based and Omnibus-based installations. This is recommended in most cases.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="docker" label="Docker" default>

#### Setting up ACME for Docker-based deployments

For Docker-based deployments, the simplest way to provision an SSL
certificate is to use our Caddy service example in docker-compose.yml.
Caddy uses ACME to automatically provision SSL certificates as long as
it's available on port 80/tcp and the DNS record for the server is valid.

See the [Docker deployment guide](docker) for more info.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="omnibus" label="Omnibus">

For Omnibus-based deployments, ACME is disabled by default to maintain
compatibility with existing installations.

To enable ACME, ensure the following conditions are met:

* `80/tcp` is allow inbound
* The bundled Firezone `nginx` service is enabled and functioning
* You have a valid DNS record assigned to this instance's public IP
* The following 3 settings are configured in the [configuration file](../reference/configuration-file):
  * `default['firezone']['external_url']`: The FQDN for the server.
  * `default['firezone']['ssl']['email_address']`: The email that will be used
    for the issued certificates.
  * `default['firezone']['ssl']['acme']['enabled']`: Set this to true to enable it.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Open required firewall ports

By default, Firezone requires ports `443/tcp` and `51820/udp` to be
accessible for HTTPS and WireGuard traffic respectively.
These ports can change based on what you've configured in the configuration file.
See the
[configuration file reference](../reference/configuration-file)
for details.

:::warning
Firezone modifies the kernel netfilter and routing tables. Other
programs that modify the Linux routing table or firewall may interfere with
Firezone's operation. For help troubleshooting connectivity issues, see
[troubleshoot](../administer/troubleshoot).
:::

### Resource Requirements

We recommend **starting with 1 vCPU and 1 GB of RAM and scaling up** as the
number of users and devices grows.

For Omnibus-based deployments on servers with less than 1GB of memory, we
recommend turning on swap to prevent the Linux kernel from killing
Firezone processes unexpectedly. When this happens, it's often difficult to
debug and results in strange, unpredictable failure modes.

For the VPN tunnels themselves, Firezone uses in-kernel WireGuard, so its
performance should be very good. 1 vCPU should be more than enough to saturate
a 1 Gbps link.

Commit message:

Polish install, migration script, docs (#1050)
* Checkpoint

* Checkpoint

* checkpoint

* fix typo

* Update migrate with changes

* UID and GID

* fix perms

* Remove custom user

* Fix migrate script typos

* fix grep

* remove cleverness

* migrate final fixes

docs/docs/deploy/README.mdx, after:

---
title: Deploy
sidebar_position: 2
---

Firezone can be deployed on most Docker-supported platforms in about a minute.
Read more below to get started.

## Deployment Methods

You have two options for deploying Firezone:

1. [Docker](docker) (recommended)
1. [Omnibus](omnibus)

Docker is the easiest way to install, manage, and upgrade Firezone and is the
preferred method of deployment.

:::note
Chef Infra Client, the configuration system Chef Omnibus relies on, has been
[scheduled for End-of-Life in 2024](https://docs.chef.io/versions/). As such,
support for Omnibus-based deployments will be removed in a future version of
Firezone. To transition to Docker from Omnibus today, follow our [migration guide
](../administer/migrate).
:::

## Prepare to Deploy

Regardless of which deployment method you choose, you'll need to follow the
preparation steps below before deploying Firezone to production.

1. [Create a DNS record](#create-a-dns-record)
1. [Set up SSL](#set-up-ssl)
1. [Open required firewall ports](#open-required-firewall-ports)

### Create a DNS record

Firezone requires a fully-qualified domain name (e.g. `firezone.company.com`)
for production use. You'll need to create the appropriate DNS record at your
registrar to achieve this. Typically this is either an A, CNAME, or AAAA record
depending on your requirements.

### Set up SSL

You'll need a valid SSL certificate to use Firezone in a production capacity.
Firezone supports ACME for automatic provisioning of SSL certificates for both
Docker-based and Omnibus-based installations. This is recommended in most cases.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="docker" label="Docker" default>

#### Setting up ACME for Docker-based deployments

For Docker-based deployments, the simplest way to provision an SSL
certificate is to use our Caddy service example in docker-compose.yml.
Caddy uses ACME to automatically provision SSL certificates as long as
it's available on port 80/tcp and the DNS record for the server is valid.

See the [Docker deployment guide](docker) for more info.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="omnibus" label="Omnibus">

For Omnibus-based deployments, ACME is disabled by default to maintain
compatibility with existing installations.

To enable ACME, ensure the following conditions are met:

* `80/tcp` is allow inbound
* The bundled Firezone `nginx` service is enabled and functioning
* You have a valid DNS record assigned to this instance's public IP
* The following 3 settings are configured in the [configuration file](../reference/configuration-file):
  * `default['firezone']['external_url']`: The FQDN for the server.
  * `default['firezone']['ssl']['email_address']`: The email that will be used
    for the issued certificates.
  * `default['firezone']['ssl']['acme']['enabled']`: Set this to true to enable it.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Open required firewall ports

By default, Firezone requires ports `443/tcp` and `51820/udp` to be
accessible for HTTPS and WireGuard traffic respectively.
These ports can change based on what you've configured in the configuration file.
See the
[configuration file reference](../reference/configuration-file)
for details.

### Resource Requirements

We recommend **starting with 1 vCPU and 1 GB of RAM and scaling up** as the
number of users and devices grows.

For Omnibus-based deployments on servers with less than 1GB of memory, we
recommend turning on swap to prevent the Linux kernel from killing
Firezone processes unexpectedly. When this happens, it's often difficult to
debug and results in strange, unpredictable failure modes.

For the VPN tunnels themselves, Firezone uses in-kernel WireGuard, so its
performance should be very good. 1 vCPU should be more than enough to saturate
a 1 Gbps link.
