docs/docs/deploy/security-considerations.mdx, before:

---
title: Security Considerations
sidebar_position: 6
---

# Security considerations

**Disclaimer**: Firezone is still beta software. The codebase has not yet
received a formal security audit. For highly sensitive and mission-critical
production deployments, we recommend disabling local authentication as
detailed [below](#production-deployments).

## List of services and ports

Shown below is a table of default ports used by Firezone services.

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Docker" value="docker" default>

| Service    | Port        | Listen address | Description                                                                   |
| ------     | ---------   | -------        | ---------                                                                     |
| Caddy      | `443/tcp`   | `all`          | Public HTTPS port for administering Firezone and facilitating authentication. |
| Caddy      | `80/tcp`    | `all`          | Public HTTP port used for ACME. Disabled when ACME is disabled.               |
| WireGuard  | `51820/udp` | `all`          | Public WireGuard port used for VPN sessions.                                  |
| Postgresql | `5432/tcp`  | `-`            | Containerized port used for bundled Postgresql server.                        |
| Phoenix    | `13000/tcp` | `-`            | Containerized port used by upstream elixir app server.                        |

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Omnibus" value="omnibus">

| Service    | Port        | Listen address | Description                                                                   |
| ------     | ---------   | -------        | ---------                                                                     |
| Nginx      | `443/tcp`   | `all`          | Public HTTPS port for administering Firezone and facilitating authentication. |
| Nginx      | `80/tcp`    | `all`          | Public HTTP port used for ACME. Disabled when ACME is disabled.               |
| WireGuard  | `51820/udp` | `all`          | Public WireGuard port used for VPN sessions.                                  |
| Postgresql | `15432/tcp` | `127.0.0.1`    | Local-only port used for bundled Postgresql server.                           |
| Phoenix    | `13000/tcp` | `127.0.0.1`    | Local-only port used by upstream elixir app server.                           |

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Production deployments

For production deployments of Firezone, we recommend you disable local authentication
altogether by setting `default['firezone']['authentication']['local']['enabled'] = false`
(Omnibus-based deployments) or `LOCAL_AUTH_ENABLED=false` (Docker-based deployments).

:::caution
Ensure you've set up a working [OIDC](/authenticate/oidc/) or [SAML](/authenticate/saml/)-based
authentication provider before disabling the local authentication method.
:::

## Reporting Security Issues

To report any security-related bugs, see [our security bug reporting policy
](https://github.com/firezone/firezone/blob/master/SECURITY.md).

Commit message:

Update recommendations for local authentication (#1252)
Update the local auth docs to reflect current recommendations.

docs/docs/deploy/security-considerations.mdx, after:

---
title: Security Considerations
sidebar_position: 6
---

# Security considerations

**Disclaimer**: Firezone is still beta software. The codebase has not yet
received a formal security audit. For highly sensitive and mission-critical
production deployments, we recommend disabling local authentication as
detailed [below](#production-deployments).

## List of services and ports

Shown below is a table of default ports used by Firezone services.

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Docker" value="docker" default>

| Service    | Port        | Listen address | Description                                                                   |
| ------     | ---------   | -------        | ---------                                                                     |
| Caddy      | `443/tcp`   | `all`          | Public HTTPS port for administering Firezone and facilitating authentication. |
| Caddy      | `80/tcp`    | `all`          | Public HTTP port used for ACME. Disabled when ACME is disabled.               |
| WireGuard  | `51820/udp` | `all`          | Public WireGuard port used for VPN sessions.                                  |
| Postgresql | `5432/tcp`  | `-`            | Containerized port used for bundled Postgresql server.                        |
| Phoenix    | `13000/tcp` | `-`            | Containerized port used by upstream elixir app server.                        |

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Omnibus" value="omnibus">

| Service    | Port        | Listen address | Description                                                                   |
| ------     | ---------   | -------        | ---------                                                                     |
| Nginx      | `443/tcp`   | `all`          | Public HTTPS port for administering Firezone and facilitating authentication. |
| Nginx      | `80/tcp`    | `all`          | Public HTTP port used for ACME. Disabled when ACME is disabled.               |
| WireGuard  | `51820/udp` | `all`          | Public WireGuard port used for VPN sessions.                                  |
| Postgresql | `15432/tcp` | `127.0.0.1`    | Local-only port used for bundled Postgresql server.                           |
| Phoenix    | `13000/tcp` | `127.0.0.1`    | Local-only port used by upstream elixir app server.                           |

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Production deployments

For production deployments of Firezone, we recommend you disable local authentication
altogether by setting `default['firezone']['authentication']['local']['enabled'] = false`
(Omnibus-based deployments) or `LOCAL_AUTH_ENABLED=false` (Docker-based deployments).
Local authentication can also be disabled on the `/settings/security` page.

:::caution
Ensure you've set up a working [OIDC](/authenticate/oidc/) or [SAML](/authenticate/saml/)-based
authentication provider before disabling the local authentication method.
:::

## Reporting Security Issues

To report any security-related bugs, see [our security bug reporting policy
](https://github.com/firezone/firezone/blob/master/SECURITY.md).
