docs/docs/authenticate/oidc/auth0.mdx, before:

---
title: Auth0
sidebar_position: 7
---

Firezone supports Single Sign-On (SSO) using Auth0
through the generic OIDC connector. This guide will walk you through how to
obtain the following config settings required for the integration:

1. `discovery_document_uri`: The
[OpenID Connect provider configuration URI](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderConfig)
which returns a JSON document used to construct subsequent requests to this
OIDC provider.
1. `client_id`: The client ID of the application.
1. `client_secret`: The client secret of the application.
1. `redirect_uri`: Instructs OIDC provider where to redirect after authentication.
This should be your Firezone `EXTERNAL_URL + /auth/oidc/<provider_key>/callback/`
(e.g. `https://firezone.example.com/auth/oidc/auth0/callback/`).
1. `response_type`: Set to `code`.
1. `scope`: [OIDC scopes](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-basic-1_0.html#Scopes)
to obtain from your OIDC provider. This should be set to `openid email profile`
to provide Firezone with the user's email in the returned claims.
1. `label`: The button label text that shows up on your Firezone login screen.

## Obtain Config Settings

### Step 1 - Create and set up an application

In the Auth0 dashboard, create an application.
Select **Regular Web Application** as the application type.

![Auth0 Configuration](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/193337715-f8cb49e7-17b3-4c9c-bc75-9fdc51b66835.png)

Next, visit the settings tab on the application details page. Take note and
modify the following parameters:

1. **Name**: `Firezone`
1. **Domain**: The domain will be used to construct
the url to retreive the OIDC discovery document -
`https://<AUTH0_DOMAIN>/.well-known/openid-configuration`
1. **Icon**:
[Firezone icon](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156854754-da66a9e1-33d5-47f5-877f-eff8b330ab2b.png)
(save link as).
1. Set **Allowed Callback URLs** to `<EXTERNAL_URL> + /auth/oidc/auth0/callback/`
(e.g. `https://firezone.example.com/auth/oidc/auth0/callback/`).
This will be the `redirect_uri` in the Firezone config.

![Auth0 settings 1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/193341643-1aeb620a-85a6-4778-a425-2d092cf13bdc.png)
![Auth0 settings 2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/193341638-710de54a-b988-4f5e-8c18-78639695efac.png)
![Auth0 settings 3](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/193341641-f94f0ecf-b16e-4831-af5b-5981d6634525.png)

## Integrate With Firezone

Visit the `/security` page in the Firezone portal.

Enter a JSON containing the config settings below to

```json
{
  "auth0": {
    "client_id": "<CLIENT_ID>",
    "client_secret": "<CLIENT_SECRET>",
    "discovery_document_uri": "https://<AUTH0_DOMAIN>/.well-known/openid-configuration",
    "label": "auth0",
    "redirect_uri": "https://<EXTERNAL_URL>/auth/oidc/auth0/callback/",
    "response_type": "code",
    "scope": "openid email profile"
  }
}
```


## Restricting Access to Certain Users

Auth0 supports setting access policies to control which users
can access the Firezone application. See Auth0's
[Documentation](https://auth0.com/docs/manage-users/user-accounts/manage-user-access-to-applications)
for details.

## Automate Provision and Deprovisioning of Users

Firezone supports synchronizing with Auth0 to automatically
provisioning and de-provisioning user accounts.
If you are interested in this functionality, please
[contact us](https://www.firezone.dev/contact/sales)
for details.

Commit message:

update doc + remove provisioning section

docs/docs/authenticate/oidc/auth0.mdx, after:

---
title: Auth0
sidebar_position: 7
---

Firezone supports Single Sign-On (SSO) using Auth0
through the generic OIDC connector. This guide will walk you through how to
obtain the following config settings required for the integration:

1. `discovery_document_uri`: The
[OpenID Connect provider configuration URI](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderConfig)
which returns a JSON document used to construct subsequent requests to this
OIDC provider.
1. `client_id`: The client ID of the application.
1. `client_secret`: The client secret of the application.
1. `redirect_uri`: Instructs OIDC provider where to redirect after authentication.
This should be your Firezone `EXTERNAL_URL + /auth/oidc/<provider_key>/callback/`
(e.g. `https://firezone.example.com/auth/oidc/auth0/callback/`).
1. `response_type`: Set to `code`.
1. `scope`: [OIDC scopes](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-basic-1_0.html#Scopes)
to obtain from your OIDC provider. This should be set to `openid email profile`
to provide Firezone with the user's email in the returned claims.
1. `label`: The button label text that shows up on your Firezone login screen.

## Obtain Config Settings

### Step 1 - Create and set up an application

In the Auth0 dashboard, create an application.
Select **Regular Web Application** as the application type.

![Auth0 Configuration](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/193337715-f8cb49e7-17b3-4c9c-bc75-9fdc51b66835.png)

Next, visit the settings tab on the application details page. Take note and
modify the following parameters:

1. **Name**: `Firezone`
1. **Domain**: The domain will be used to construct
the url to retreive the OIDC discovery document -
`https://<AUTH0_DOMAIN>/.well-known/openid-configuration`
1. **Icon**:
[Firezone icon](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156854754-da66a9e1-33d5-47f5-877f-eff8b330ab2b.png)
(save link as).
1. Set **Allowed Callback URLs** to `<EXTERNAL_URL> + /auth/oidc/auth0/callback/`
(e.g. `https://firezone.example.com/auth/oidc/auth0/callback/`).
This will be the `redirect_uri` in the Firezone config.

![Auth0 settings 1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/193341643-1aeb620a-85a6-4778-a425-2d092cf13bdc.png)
![Auth0 settings 2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/193341638-710de54a-b988-4f5e-8c18-78639695efac.png)
![Auth0 settings 3](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/193341641-f94f0ecf-b16e-4831-af5b-5981d6634525.png)

## Integrate With Firezone

Visit the `/security` page in the Firezone portal.

Enter a JSON containing the config settings below into the
single sign-on section of the page. Once complete,
click **Save Providers**.

```json
{
  "auth0": {
    "client_id": "<CLIENT_ID>",
    "client_secret": "<CLIENT_SECRET>",
    "discovery_document_uri": "https://<AUTH0_DOMAIN>/.well-known/openid-configuration",
    "label": "auth0",
    "redirect_uri": "https://<EXTERNAL_URL>/auth/oidc/auth0/callback/",
    "response_type": "code",
    "scope": "openid email profile"
  }
}
```

If applied correctly, you will see an option to sign
in with Auth0 in your Firezone portal.

## Restricting Access to Certain Users

Auth0 supports setting access policies to control which users
can access the Firezone application. See Auth0's
[Documentation](https://auth0.com/docs/manage-users/user-accounts/manage-user-access-to-applications)
for details.
