docs/docs/authenticate/oidc/google.mdx, before:

---
title: Google Workspace
sidebar_position: 5
---

Firezone supports Single Sign-On (SSO) using Google Workspace and Cloud Identity
through the generic OIDC connector. This guide will walk you through how to
obtain the following config settings required for the integration:

1. `discovery_document_uri`: The
[OpenID Connect provider configuration URI](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderConfig)
which returns a JSON document used to construct subsequent requests to this
OIDC provider.
1. `client_id`: The client ID of the application.
1. `client_secret`: The client secret of the application.
1. `redirect_uri`: Instructs OIDC provider where to redirect after authentication.
This should be your Firezone `EXTERNAL_URL + /auth/oidc/<provider_key>/callback/`
(e.g. `https://firezone.example.com/auth/oidc/google/callback/`).
1. `response_type`: Set to `code`.
1. `scope`: [OIDC scopes](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-basic-1_0.html#Scopes)
to obtain from your OIDC provider. This should be set to `openid email profile`
to provide Firezone with the user's email in the returned claims.
1. `label`: The button label text that shows up on your Firezone login screen.

![Firezone Google SSO Login](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156853456-1ab3f041-1002-4c79-a266-82acb5802890.gif)

## Obtain Config Settings

### Step 1 - OAuth Config Screen

If this is the first time you are creating a new OAuth client ID, you will
be asked to configure a consent screen.

**IMPORTANT**: Select `Internal` for user type. This ensures only accounts
belonging to users in your Google Workspace Organization can create device configs.
DO NOT select `External` unless you want to enable anyone with a valid Google Account
to create device configs.

![OAuth Consent Internal](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156853731-1e4ad1d4-c761-4a28-84db-cd880e3c46a3.png)

On the App information screen:

1. **App name**: `Firezone`
1. **App logo**: [Firezone logo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156854754-da66a9e1-33d5-47f5-877f-eff8b330ab2b.png)
(save link as).
1. **Application home page**: the URL of your Firezone instance.
1. **Authorized domains**: the top level domain of your Firezone instance.

![OAuth Consent App Info](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156853737-211ab7de-4c8f-4104-b3e8-5586c7a2ce6e.png)

On the next step add the following scopes:

![OAuth Consent Scopes](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/168910904-57e86d71-b8ae-4b11-8b9c-bf8a19127065.png)

### Step 2 - Create OAuth Client IDs

_This section is based off Google's own documentation on
[setting up OAuth 2.0](https://support.google.com/cloud/answer/6158849)._

Visit the Google Cloud Console
[Credentials page](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials)
page, click `+ Create Credentials` and select `OAuth client ID`.

![Create OAuth Client ID](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/155904211-c36095b9-4bbd-44c1-95f8-bb165e314af3.png)

On the OAuth client ID creation screen:

1. Set `Application Type` to `Web application`
1. Add your Firezone `EXTERNAL_URL + /auth/oidc/google/callback/`
(e.g. `https://firezone.example.com/auth/oidc/google/callback/`) as an entry to
Authorized redirect URIs.

![Create OAuth client ID](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/168910923-819300d3-b0c2-49a6-81ee-884dce471362.png)

After creating the OAuth client ID, you will be given a Client ID and Client Secret.
These will be used together with the redirect URI in the next step.

![Copy Client ID and Secret](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/168913326-10e694d2-cda0-4ed3-b401-2406b36af7c0.png)

## Integrate With Firezone

Edit `/etc/firezone/firezone.rb` to include the options below.

```ruby
# Using Google as the SSO identity provider
default['firezone']['authentication']['oidc'] = {
  google: {
    discovery_document_uri: "https://accounts.google.com/.well-known/openid-configuration",
    client_id: "<CLIENT_ID>",
    client_secret: "<CLIENT_SECRET>",
    redirect_uri: "https://firezone.example.com/auth/oidc/google/callback/",
    response_type: "code",
    scope: "openid email profile",
    label: "Google"
  }
}
```

Run `firezone-ctl reconfigure` to update the application.
You should now see a `Sign in with Google` button at the root Firezone URL.

Commit message:

Update docs with Auto create users

docs/docs/authenticate/oidc/google.mdx, after:

---
title: Google Workspace
sidebar_position: 5
---

Firezone supports Single Sign-On (SSO) using Google Workspace and Cloud Identity
through the generic OIDC connector. This guide will walk you through how to
obtain the following config settings required for the integration:

1. `discovery_document_uri`: The
[OpenID Connect provider configuration URI](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderConfig)
which returns a JSON document used to construct subsequent requests to this
OIDC provider.
1. `client_id`: The client ID of the application.
1. `client_secret`: The client secret of the application.
1. `redirect_uri`: Instructs OIDC provider where to redirect after authentication.
This should be your Firezone `EXTERNAL_URL + /auth/oidc/<provider_key>/callback/`
(e.g. `https://firezone.example.com/auth/oidc/google/callback/`).
1. `response_type`: Set to `code`.
1. `scope`: [OIDC scopes](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-basic-1_0.html#Scopes)
to obtain from your OIDC provider. This should be set to `openid email profile`
to provide Firezone with the user's email in the returned claims.
1. `label`: The button label text that shows up on your Firezone login screen.

![Firezone Google SSO Login](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156853456-1ab3f041-1002-4c79-a266-82acb5802890.gif)

## Obtain Config Settings

### Step 1 - OAuth Config Screen

If this is the first time you are creating a new OAuth client ID, you will
be asked to configure a consent screen.

**IMPORTANT**: Select `Internal` for user type. This ensures only accounts
belonging to users in your Google Workspace Organization can create device configs.
DO NOT select `External` unless you want to enable anyone with a valid Google Account
to create device configs.

![OAuth Consent Internal](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156853731-1e4ad1d4-c761-4a28-84db-cd880e3c46a3.png)

On the App information screen:

1. **App name**: `Firezone`
1. **App logo**: [Firezone logo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156854754-da66a9e1-33d5-47f5-877f-eff8b330ab2b.png)
(save link as).
1. **Application home page**: the URL of your Firezone instance.
1. **Authorized domains**: the top level domain of your Firezone instance.

![OAuth Consent App Info](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156853737-211ab7de-4c8f-4104-b3e8-5586c7a2ce6e.png)

On the next step add the following scopes:

![OAuth Consent Scopes](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/168910904-57e86d71-b8ae-4b11-8b9c-bf8a19127065.png)

### Step 2 - Create OAuth Client IDs

_This section is based off Google's own documentation on
[setting up OAuth 2.0](https://support.google.com/cloud/answer/6158849)._

Visit the Google Cloud Console
[Credentials page](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials)
page, click `+ Create Credentials` and select `OAuth client ID`.

![Create OAuth Client ID](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/155904211-c36095b9-4bbd-44c1-95f8-bb165e314af3.png)

On the OAuth client ID creation screen:

1. Set `Application Type` to `Web application`
1. Add your Firezone `EXTERNAL_URL + /auth/oidc/google/callback/`
(e.g. `https://firezone.example.com/auth/oidc/google/callback/`) as an entry to
Authorized redirect URIs.

![Create OAuth client ID](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/168910923-819300d3-b0c2-49a6-81ee-884dce471362.png)

After creating the OAuth client ID, you will be given a Client ID and Client Secret.
These will be used together with the redirect URI in the next step.

![Copy Client ID and Secret](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/168913326-10e694d2-cda0-4ed3-b401-2406b36af7c0.png)

## Integrate with Firezone

Navigate to the `/settings/security` page in the admin portal, click "Add OpenID Connect Provider" and enter details you obtained
in the steps above.

Enable or disable the **Auto create users** option to automatically create
an unprivileged user when signing in via this authentication mechanism.

And that's it! The configuration should be updated immediately.
You should now see a `Sign in with Google` button on the sign in page.
