docs/docs/authenticate/oidc/keycloak.mdx, before:

---
title: Keycloak
sidebar_position: 4
---

Firezone supports Single Sign-On (SSO) using Keycloak
through the generic OIDC provider. This guide will walk you through how to
obtain the following config settings required for the integration:

1. **Config ID**: The provider's config ID. (e.g. `keycloak`)
1. **Label**: The button label text that shows up on your Firezone login screen. (e.g. `Keycloak`)
1. **Scope**: [OIDC scopes](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-basic-1_0.html#Scopes)
to obtain from your OIDC provider. This should be set to `openid email profile offline_access`
to provide Firezone with the user's email in the returned claims.
1. **Response type**: Set to `code`.
1. **Client ID**: The client ID of the application.
1. **Client secret**: The client secret of the application.
1. **Discovery Document URI**: The
[OpenID Connect provider configuration URI](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderConfig)
which returns a JSON document used to construct subsequent requests to this
OIDC provider.

## Obtain Config Settings

In the Keycloak Admin Console, make sure the realm you want to use with Firezone
is selected.

![Keycloak Realm](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69542737/193370148-6557399d-a921-4bfe-82d2-a56e5a9f6322.png)

### Create Firezone Client

Create a new Client for Firezone by navigating to **Clients > Create Client** and
configure the following:

1. **Client type**: `OpenID Connect`
1. **Client ID**: `firezone`
1. **Name**: `Firezone`
1. Click **Next**.

![Create Firezone Client](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69542737/193369057-ec4b8bd4-6520-4482-979f-593b75798998.png)

1. Toggle **Client authentication** to `On` to generate the client secret.
1. Click **Save**.

![Save Firezone Client](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69542737/193372348-832dec80-5745-4806-bfc3-384088c591ec.png)

Click **Access settings** to jump to that section and configure the valid redirect URI:

1. **Valid Redirect URIs**: This should be your Firezone `EXTERNAL_URL + /auth/oidc/<Config ID>/callback/`
(e.g. `https://firezone.example.com/auth/oidc/keycloak/callback/`).
1. Click **Add valid redirect URIs**

![Firezone Access Settings](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69542737/195937386-efa9be88-8e4c-4180-840e-2c1a86f1ba88.png)

Click the **Credentials** tab and copy the client secret.

![Firezone Client Secret](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69542737/193376065-68978de1-69ca-484a-9011-2dd4b0ae99fe.png)

Navigate to the **Realm Settings** page to get the **Discovery Document URI** by
copying the **OpenID Endpoint Configuration** link at the bottom of the page.

![Keycloak Realm Settings](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69542737/193376952-cdcbb4f2-40f4-499b-8053-928208e4ea6a.png)

## Integrate With Firezone

Navigate to the `/settings/security` page in the admin portal, click
"Add OpenID Connect Provider" and enter the details you obtained in the steps
above.

Enable or disable the **Auto create users** option to automatically create
an unprivileged user when signing in via this authentication mechanism.

And that's it! The configuration should be updated immediately.
You should now see a `Sign in with Keycloak` button on the sign in page.

Commit message:

Docs - Improve titles and descriptions (#1187)
* docs: update titles, descriptions

Changes:
- set more descriptive titles (better for readers and SEO)
- add meta descriptions
- convert titles to sentence case for consistency

* docs: small fixes

* fix trailing whitespaces

* fix spelling

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Jamil <jamilbk@users.noreply.github.com>
Signed-off-by: Jason G <jason@firez.one>

* add descriptions to client instructions

Signed-off-by: Jason G <jason@firez.one>
Co-authored-by: Jamil <jamilbk@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/docs/authenticate/oidc/keycloak.mdx, after:

---
title: Keycloak
sidebar_position: 4
description:
    Enforce 2FA/MFA for users of Firezone's WireGuard®-based
    secure access platform. This guide walks through integrating Keycloak
    for single sign-on using OpenID Connect (OIDC).
---

# Enable SSO with Keycloak (OIDC)

Firezone supports Single Sign-On (SSO) using Keycloak
through the generic OIDC provider. This guide will walk you through how to
obtain the following config settings required for the integration:

1. **Config ID**: The provider's config ID. (e.g. `keycloak`)
1. **Label**: The button label text that shows up on your Firezone login screen. (e.g. `Keycloak`)
1. **Scope**: [OIDC scopes](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-basic-1_0.html#Scopes)
to obtain from your OIDC provider. This should be set to `openid email profile offline_access`
to provide Firezone with the user's email in the returned claims.
1. **Response type**: Set to `code`.
1. **Client ID**: The client ID of the application.
1. **Client secret**: The client secret of the application.
1. **Discovery Document URI**: The
[OpenID Connect provider configuration URI](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderConfig)
which returns a JSON document used to construct subsequent requests to this
OIDC provider.

## Obtain Config Settings

In the Keycloak Admin Console, make sure the realm you want to use with Firezone
is selected.

![Keycloak Realm](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69542737/193370148-6557399d-a921-4bfe-82d2-a56e5a9f6322.png)

### Create Firezone Client

Create a new Client for Firezone by navigating to **Clients > Create Client** and
configure the following:

1. **Client type**: `OpenID Connect`
1. **Client ID**: `firezone`
1. **Name**: `Firezone`
1. Click **Next**.

![Create Firezone Client](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69542737/193369057-ec4b8bd4-6520-4482-979f-593b75798998.png)

1. Toggle **Client authentication** to `On` to generate the client secret.
1. Click **Save**.

![Save Firezone Client](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69542737/193372348-832dec80-5745-4806-bfc3-384088c591ec.png)

Click **Access settings** to jump to that section and configure the valid redirect URI:

1. **Valid Redirect URIs**: This should be your Firezone `EXTERNAL_URL + /auth/oidc/<Config ID>/callback/`
(e.g. `https://firezone.example.com/auth/oidc/keycloak/callback/`).
1. Click **Add valid redirect URIs**

![Firezone Access Settings](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69542737/195937386-efa9be88-8e4c-4180-840e-2c1a86f1ba88.png)

Click the **Credentials** tab and copy the client secret.

![Firezone Client Secret](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69542737/193376065-68978de1-69ca-484a-9011-2dd4b0ae99fe.png)

Navigate to the **Realm Settings** page to get the **Discovery Document URI** by
copying the **OpenID Endpoint Configuration** link at the bottom of the page.

![Keycloak Realm Settings](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/69542737/193376952-cdcbb4f2-40f4-499b-8053-928208e4ea6a.png)

## Integrate With Firezone

Navigate to the `/settings/security` page in the admin portal, click
"Add OpenID Connect Provider" and enter the details you obtained in the steps
above.

Enable or disable the **Auto create users** option to automatically create
an unprivileged user when signing in via this authentication mechanism.

And that's it! The configuration should be updated immediately.
You should now see a `Sign in with Keycloak` button on the sign in page.
