docs/docs/authenticate/oidc/onelogin.mdx, before:

---
title: Onelogin
sidebar_position: 6
---

Firezone supports Single Sign-On (SSO) using OneLogin
through the generic OIDC connector. This guide will walk you through how to
obtain the following config settings required for the integration:

1. **Config ID**: The provider's config ID. (e.g. `onelogin`)
1. **Label**: The button label text that shows up on your Firezone login screen. (e.g. `Onelogin`)
1. **Scope**: [OIDC scopes](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-basic-1_0.html#Scopes)
to obtain from your OIDC provider. This should be set to `openid email profile`
to provide Firezone with the user's email in the returned claims.
1. **Response type**: Set to `code`.
1. **Client ID**: The client ID of the application.
1. **Client secret**: The client secret of the application.
1. **Discovery Document URI**: The
[OpenID Connect provider configuration URI](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderConfig)
which returns a JSON document used to construct subsequent requests to this
OIDC provider.

## Obtain Config Settings

### Step 1 - Configure Custom Connector

Create a new OIDC connector by visiting **Appliances > Custom Connectors**.

1. **App name**: `Firezone`
1. **Icon**: [Firezone logo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156854754-da66a9e1-33d5-47f5-877f-eff8b330ab2b.png)
or
[Firezone icon](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156854754-da66a9e1-33d5-47f5-877f-eff8b330ab2b.png)
(save link as).
1. **Sign on method**: select **OpenID Connect**
1. **Redirect URI**: Add your Firezone `<EXTERNAL_URL> + /auth/oidc/<Config ID>/callback/`
(e.g. `https://firezone.example.com/auth/oidc/onelogin/callback/`).

![Onelogin Configuration](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/173190108-569e5cb5-e66b-4505-a4c5-fedd22872a04.png)

### Step 2 - Configure the OIDC Application

Next, click **Add App to Connector** to create an OIDC application.
Visit the **SSO** tab, then change the token endpoint authentication method
to **POST**.

You will find the values for the config settings required by Firezone
on this page as well.

![Onelogin Config Parameters](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/180120191-dfeab4ef-d7f5-4c04-a7b2-7d9338af34e6.png)

## Integrate With Firezone

Navigate to the `/settings/security` page in the admin portal, click
"Add OpenID Connect Provider" and enter the details you obtained in the steps
above.

Enable or disable the **Auto create users** option to automatically create
an unprivileged user when signing in via this authentication mechanism.

And that's it! The configuration should be updated immediately.
You should now see a `Sign in with Onelogin` button on the sign in page.

Commit message:

Add onelogin and okta SAML docs (#1108)
* add onelogin doc

* add okta doc

* add okta and onelogin to main README

* wording and grammar

* remove SLO for now

* lint and table formatting

* trailing whitespace

* Update docs/docs/authenticate/saml/okta.mdx

Co-authored-by: Jamil <jamilbk@users.noreply.github.com>
Signed-off-by: Jason G <jason@firez.one>

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Jamil <jamilbk@users.noreply.github.com>
Signed-off-by: Jason G <jason@firez.one>

* move provider support to top

Signed-off-by: Jason G <jason@firez.one>
Co-authored-by: Jamil <jamilbk@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/docs/authenticate/oidc/onelogin.mdx, after:

---
title: OneLogin
sidebar_position: 6
---

Firezone supports Single Sign-On (SSO) using OneLogin
through the generic OIDC connector. This guide will walk you through how to
obtain the following config settings required for the integration:

1. **Config ID**: The provider's config ID. (e.g. `onelogin`)
1. **Label**: The button label text that shows up on your Firezone login screen. (e.g. `OneLogin`)
1. **Scope**: [OIDC scopes](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-basic-1_0.html#Scopes)
to obtain from your OIDC provider. This should be set to `openid email profile`
to provide Firezone with the user's email in the returned claims.
1. **Response type**: Set to `code`.
1. **Client ID**: The client ID of the application.
1. **Client secret**: The client secret of the application.
1. **Discovery Document URI**: The
[OpenID Connect provider configuration URI](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderConfig)
which returns a JSON document used to construct subsequent requests to this
OIDC provider.

## Obtain Config Settings

### Step 1 - Configure Custom Connector

Create a new OIDC connector by visiting **Appliances > Custom Connectors**.

1. **App name**: `Firezone`
1. **Icon**: [Firezone logo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156854754-da66a9e1-33d5-47f5-877f-eff8b330ab2b.png)
or
[Firezone icon](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/156854754-da66a9e1-33d5-47f5-877f-eff8b330ab2b.png)
(save link as).
1. **Sign on method**: select **OpenID Connect**
1. **Redirect URI**: Add your Firezone `<EXTERNAL_URL> + /auth/oidc/<Config ID>/callback/`
(e.g. `https://firezone.example.com/auth/oidc/onelogin/callback/`).

![OneLogin Configuration](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/173190108-569e5cb5-e66b-4505-a4c5-fedd22872a04.png)

### Step 2 - Configure the OIDC Application

Next, click **Add App to Connector** to create an OIDC application.
Visit the **SSO** tab, then change the token endpoint authentication method
to **POST**.

You will find the values for the config settings required by Firezone
on this page as well.

![OneLogin Config Parameters](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/180120191-dfeab4ef-d7f5-4c04-a7b2-7d9338af34e6.png)

## Integrate With Firezone

Navigate to the `/settings/security` page in the admin portal, click
"Add OpenID Connect Provider" and enter the details you obtained in the steps
above.

Enable or disable the **Auto create users** option to automatically create
an unprivileged user when signing in via this authentication mechanism.

And that's it! The configuration should be updated immediately.
You should now see a `Sign in with OneLogin` button on the sign in page.
