docs/docs/authenticate/oidc/README.mdx, before:

---
title: OpenID Connect
sidebar_position: 10
---

Firezone supports Single Sign-On (SSO) via OpenID Connect (OIDC).

## Provider Support

In general, most identity providers that offer OIDC support work with Firezone. Some providers
that only implement the OIDC partially or use uncommon configurations may have
issues, however. If your identity provider falls into this category, [contact us
](https://www.firezone.dev/contact/sales) about a custom integration.

The following OIDC providers are known to work well with Firezone:

| Provider                                                                          | Support Status                 | Notes                                                                                                                                                  |
| ---                                                                               | ---                            | ---                                                                                                                                                    |
| [Azure Active Directory](azuread)                                                 | **Fully tested and supported** | Ensure the [`email` claim](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/active-directory-optional-claims) is present in the token. |
| [Google Workspace](google)                                                        | **Fully tested and supported** |                                                                                                                                                        |
| [Okta](okta)                                                                      | **Fully tested and supported** |                                                                                                                                                        |
| [Onelogin](onelogin)                                                              | **Fully tested and supported** |                                                                                                                                                        |
| [Auth0](auth0)                                                                    | **Fully tested and supported** |                                                                                                                                                        |
| [Zitadel](zitadel)                                                                | Untested but known to work     |                                                                                                                                                        |
| [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/)                                             | Untested but known to work     |                                                                                                                                                        |
| [Authentik](https://goauthentik.io/)                                              | Untested but known to work     |                                                                                                                                                        |

## General Instructions

If you're using an OIDC provider not listed above, the following OIDC attributes
are required for the setting up an OIDC provider
in Firezone:

1. `discovery_document_uri`: The
[OpenID Connect provider configuration URI](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderConfig)
which returns a JSON document used to construct subsequent requests to this
OIDC provider. Some providers refer to this as the "well-known URL".
1. `client_id`: The client ID of the application.
1. `client_secret`: The client secret of the application.
1. `redirect_uri`: Instructs OIDC provider where to redirect after authentication.
This should be your Firezone `EXTERNAL_URL + /auth/oidc/<provider_key>/callback/`
(e.g. `https://firezone.example.com/auth/oidc/google/callback/`).
1. `response_type`: Set to `code`.
1. `scope`: [OIDC scopes](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-basic-1_0.html#Scopes)
to obtain from your OIDC provider. At a minimum, Firezone requires the `openid`
and `email` scopes.
1. `label`: The button label text displayed on the Firezone portal login page.

Commit message:

Support `end_session_uri`, custom `redirect_uri` and PKCE (#1110)
* Checkpoint PKCE; Refactor state

* tests passing

* id_token_hint working

* Fix WGAdapter setting

* what happened to redirect_uri

* Add redirect_uri custom

* Remove dbg

* Fix nil logout

* session cleanup

* Remove unneeded fixtures

* redis disable

* Fix tests

docs/docs/authenticate/oidc/README.mdx, after:

---
title: OpenID Connect
sidebar_position: 10
---

Firezone supports Single Sign-On (SSO) via OpenID Connect (OIDC).

## Provider Support

In general, most identity providers that offer OIDC support work with Firezone. Some providers
that only implement the OIDC partially or use uncommon configurations may have
issues, however. If your identity provider falls into this category, [contact us
](https://www.firezone.dev/contact/sales) about a custom integration.

The following OIDC providers are known to work well with Firezone:

| Provider                                                                          | Support Status                 | Notes                                                                                                                                                  |
| ---                                                                               | ---                            | ---                                                                                                                                                    |
| [Azure Active Directory](azuread)                                                 | **Fully tested and supported** | Ensure the [`email` claim](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/active-directory-optional-claims) is present in the token. |
| [Okta](okta)                                                                      | **Fully tested and supported** |                                                                                                                                                        |
| [Onelogin](onelogin)                                                              | **Fully tested and supported** |                                                                                                                                                        |
| [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/)                                             | **Fully tested and supported** |                                                                                                                                                        |
| [Auth0](auth0)                                                                    | **Fully tested and supported** | Auth0 does not provide an `end_session_uri` in its OIDC discovery document. Signing out of Auth0 from Firezone is not supported.                                                                                                                                                       |
| [Google Workspace](google)                                                        | **Fully tested and supported** | Google does not provide an `end_session_uri` in its OIDC discovery document. Signing out of Google Workspace from Firezone is not supported.         |
| [Zitadel](zitadel)                                                                | Untested but known to work     |                                                                                                                                                        |
| [Authentik](https://goauthentik.io/)                                              | Untested but known to work     |                                                                                                                                                        |

## General Instructions

If you're using an OIDC provider not listed above, the following OIDC attributes
are required for setting up an OIDC provider in Firezone:

1. `discovery_document_uri`: The
[OpenID Connect provider configuration URI](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderConfig)
which returns a JSON document used to construct subsequent requests to this
OIDC provider. Some providers refer to this as the "well-known URL".
1. `client_id`: The client ID of the application.
1. `client_secret`: The client secret of the application.
1. `redirect_uri`: Instructs OIDC provider where to redirect after authentication.
This should be your Firezone `EXTERNAL_URL + /auth/oidc/<provider_key>/callback/`
(e.g. `https://firezone.example.com/auth/oidc/google/callback/`).
1. `response_type`: Set to `code`.
1. `scope`: [OIDC scopes](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-basic-1_0.html#Scopes)
to obtain from your OIDC provider. At a minimum, Firezone requires the `openid`
and `email` scopes.
1. `label`: The button label text displayed on the Firezone portal login page.

### PKCE

Firezone supports Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE) for increased login security.
We recommend you enable PKCE in your IdP's settings whenever available. [Read more
about PKCE here](https://oauth.net/2/pkce/).

### OIDC Logout URI

The OpenID Connect standard [defines a mechanism](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-rpinitiated-1_0.html)
for a Relying Party (RP) to request that an OpenID Provider log out the End-User.

Unfortunately, not all IdPs support this (e.g. Google, Auth0). For the providers
that do support this mechanism, Firezone automatically detects the `end_session_uri`
found in the provider's discovery document and uses that to log out the End-User.
