docs/docs/authenticate/oidc/zitadel.mdx, before:

---
title: Zitadel
sidebar_position: 7
---

Firezone supports Single Sign-On (SSO) using Zitadel
through the generic OIDC connector. This guide will walk you through how to
obtain the following config settings required for the integration:

1. **Config ID**: The provider's config ID. (e.g. `zitadel`)
1. **Label**: The button label text that shows up on your Firezone login screen. (e.g. `Zitadel`)
1. **Scope**: [OIDC scopes](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-basic-1_0.html#Scopes)
to obtain from your OIDC provider. This should be set to `openid email profile offline_access`
to provide Firezone with the user's email in the returned claims.
1. **Response type**: Set to `code`.
1. **Client ID**: The client ID of the application.
1. **Client secret**: The client secret of the application.
1. **Discovery Document URI**: The
[OpenID Connect provider configuration URI](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderConfig)
which returns a JSON document used to construct subsequent requests to this
OIDC provider.

![Firezone Zitadel SSO Login](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42775578/190861910-2a16881d-1a04-4515-9ed4-d6768db9efc0.gif)

## Requirements

* Setup your own [Zitadel Cloud](https://zitadel.cloud/) account.
* Create your first Zitadel instance in the
  [Zitadel Customer portal](https://zitadel.cloud/admin/instances)
* Login to your Zitadel instance and create a project (i.e. "Internal")

More information about these steps can be found in
[Zitadel's documentation](https://docs.zitadel.com/docs/guides/start/quickstart#try-out-zitadel-cloud).

## Create Zitadel Application

In the Instance Console, go to **Projects** and select the project you want,
then click **New**.

![Start adding a new application in the project site](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42775578/190860229-66dc21e3-96f0-46d3-bcf1-3d6ea6b99db2.png)

Give the application a name (e.g. "Firezone") and select **WEB**
for the application type.

![Name the application and select type WEB](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42775578/190860326-cb6998a1-035a-4324-89f8-3c31fb2dfeea.png)

Select **CODE** for the authentication method.

![Select authentication method CODE](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42775578/190860399-28c134d6-bd45-4da3-a433-4ae0b1e4ffca.png)

Specify the redirect URI and post logout URI.

1. **Redirect URIs**: `EXTERNAL_URL + /auth/oidc/<Config ID>/callback/`
(e.g. `https://vpn.example.com/auth/oidc/zitadel/callback/`)
1. **Post Logout URIs**: `EXTERNAL_URL` (e.g. `https://vpn.example.com`)

![Specify the redirect URI and post logout URI](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42775578/190860569-6eec899e-5753-40a6-8535-2e32a6a882a9.png)

Double-check the configuration, then click **Create**.

![Configuration Overview](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42775578/190860669-f478d930-24a0-4854-8631-bc3b1025e3db.png)

Copy the **ClientId** and **ClientSecret** as it will be used for the Firezone
configuration.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42775578/190860714-c3f38cd9-1a25-4044-ae3b-dd172be3d878.png)

In the application **Configuration** click **Refresh Token** and then on
**Save**. The refresh token is optional for some features of Firezone.

![Application Configuration](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42775578/190860810-9eb2cf47-d7f9-4c70-b562-fcd04c08e9e8.png)

In the application **Token Settings** select **User roles inside ID Token** and
**User Info inside ID Token**. Save it with a click on **Save**.

![Application Token Settings](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42775578/190860899-caee8ed8-b43c-47fa-8519-868d37ce0eb5.png)

## Integrate With Firezone

Navigate to the `/settings/security` page in the admin portal, click
"Add OpenID Connect Provider" and enter the details you obtained in the steps
above.

Enable or disable the **Auto create users** option to automatically create
an unprivileged user when signing in via this authentication mechanism.

And that's it! The configuration should be updated immediately.
You should now see a `Sign in with Zitadel` button on the sign in page.

## Restricting Access to Certain Users in Zitadel

Zitadel can limit which users have access to Firezone. To do this,
go to the project where your created your application. In **General** you can
find **Check Authorization on Authentication** which allows only users with at
least one role to login to Firezone.

![Zitadel check authorization on authentication](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42775578/190861300-68dad91d-1859-4dc5-8beb-16858bda5880.png)

Commit message:

Docs - Improve titles and descriptions (#1187)
* docs: update titles, descriptions

Changes:
- set more descriptive titles (better for readers and SEO)
- add meta descriptions
- convert titles to sentence case for consistency

* docs: small fixes

* fix trailing whitespaces

* fix spelling

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Jamil <jamilbk@users.noreply.github.com>
Signed-off-by: Jason G <jason@firez.one>

* add descriptions to client instructions

Signed-off-by: Jason G <jason@firez.one>
Co-authored-by: Jamil <jamilbk@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/docs/authenticate/oidc/zitadel.mdx, after:

---
title: Zitadel
sidebar_position: 7
description:
    Enforce 2FA/MFA for users of Firezone's WireGuard®-based
    secure access platform. This guide walks through integrating Zitadel
    for single sign-on using OpenID Connect (OIDC).
---

# Enable SSO with Zitadel (OIDC)

Firezone supports Single Sign-On (SSO) using Zitadel
through the generic OIDC connector. This guide will walk you through how to
obtain the following config settings required for the integration:

1. **Config ID**: The provider's config ID. (e.g. `zitadel`)
1. **Label**: The button label text that shows up on your Firezone login screen. (e.g. `Zitadel`)
1. **Scope**: [OIDC scopes](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-basic-1_0.html#Scopes)
to obtain from your OIDC provider. This should be set to `openid email profile offline_access`
to provide Firezone with the user's email in the returned claims.
1. **Response type**: Set to `code`.
1. **Client ID**: The client ID of the application.
1. **Client secret**: The client secret of the application.
1. **Discovery Document URI**: The
[OpenID Connect provider configuration URI](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderConfig)
which returns a JSON document used to construct subsequent requests to this
OIDC provider.

![Firezone Zitadel SSO Login](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42775578/190861910-2a16881d-1a04-4515-9ed4-d6768db9efc0.gif)

## Requirements

* Setup your own [Zitadel Cloud](https://zitadel.cloud/) account.
* Create your first Zitadel instance in the
  [Zitadel Customer portal](https://zitadel.cloud/admin/instances)
* Login to your Zitadel instance and create a project (i.e. "Internal")

More information about these steps can be found in
[Zitadel's documentation](https://docs.zitadel.com/docs/guides/start/quickstart#try-out-zitadel-cloud).

## Create Zitadel Application

In the Instance Console, go to **Projects** and select the project you want,
then click **New**.

![Start adding a new application in the project site](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42775578/190860229-66dc21e3-96f0-46d3-bcf1-3d6ea6b99db2.png)

Give the application a name (e.g. "Firezone") and select **WEB**
for the application type.

![Name the application and select type WEB](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42775578/190860326-cb6998a1-035a-4324-89f8-3c31fb2dfeea.png)

Select **CODE** for the authentication method.

![Select authentication method CODE](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42775578/190860399-28c134d6-bd45-4da3-a433-4ae0b1e4ffca.png)

Specify the redirect URI and post logout URI.

1. **Redirect URIs**: `EXTERNAL_URL + /auth/oidc/<Config ID>/callback/`
(e.g. `https://vpn.example.com/auth/oidc/zitadel/callback/`)
1. **Post Logout URIs**: `EXTERNAL_URL` (e.g. `https://vpn.example.com`)

![Specify the redirect URI and post logout URI](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42775578/190860569-6eec899e-5753-40a6-8535-2e32a6a882a9.png)

Double-check the configuration, then click **Create**.

![Configuration Overview](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42775578/190860669-f478d930-24a0-4854-8631-bc3b1025e3db.png)

Copy the **ClientId** and **ClientSecret** as it will be used for the Firezone
configuration.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42775578/190860714-c3f38cd9-1a25-4044-ae3b-dd172be3d878.png)

In the application **Configuration** click **Refresh Token** and then on
**Save**. The refresh token is optional for some features of Firezone.

![Application Configuration](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42775578/190860810-9eb2cf47-d7f9-4c70-b562-fcd04c08e9e8.png)

In the application **Token Settings** select **User roles inside ID Token** and
**User Info inside ID Token**. Save it with a click on **Save**.

![Application Token Settings](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42775578/190860899-caee8ed8-b43c-47fa-8519-868d37ce0eb5.png)

## Integrate With Firezone

Navigate to the `/settings/security` page in the admin portal, click
"Add OpenID Connect Provider" and enter the details you obtained in the steps
above.

Enable or disable the **Auto create users** option to automatically create
an unprivileged user when signing in via this authentication mechanism.

And that's it! The configuration should be updated immediately.
You should now see a `Sign in with Zitadel` button on the sign in page.

## Restricting Access to Certain Users in Zitadel

Zitadel can limit which users have access to Firezone. To do this,
go to the project where your created your application. In **General** you can
find **Check Authorization on Authentication** which allows only users with at
least one role to login to Firezone.

![Zitadel check authorization on authentication](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42775578/190861300-68dad91d-1859-4dc5-8beb-16858bda5880.png)
