docs/docs/user-guides/use-cases/reverse-tunnel.mdx, before:

---
title: Reverse Tunnel
sidebar_position: 2
---

This guide will walk through using Firezone as a relay to connect
two devices. A typical use case for this configuration is to enable an
administrator to access a server, container, or machine that is normally
behind a NAT or firewall.

## General Case - Node to Node

This example demonstrates a simple scenario where a tunnel is established
between Device A and Device B.

![node-to-node](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/155856835-2ad1f686-d894-43d1-8862-e3a8fcccee5c.png)
Start by creating Device A and Device B by navigating to `/users/[user_id]/new_device`.
In the settings for each device, ensure the following parameters are set to the
values listed below. You can set device settings when creating the device config
(see [Add Devices](/user-guides/add-devices/)).
If you need to update settings on an existing device, you can do so by generating
a new device config.

Note `PersistentKeepalive` can also be set in on the
`/settings/defaults` page for all devices.

Device A

- `AllowedIPs = 10.3.2.3/32`: This is the IP or range of IPs of Device B
- `PersistentKeepalive = 25` If the device is behind a NAT, this ensures the
  device is able to keep the tunnel alive and continue to receive packets from
  the WireGuard interface. Usually a value of `25` is sufficient, but you may
  need to decrease this value depending on your environment.

Device B

- `AllowedIPs = 10.3.2.2/32`: This is the IP or range of IPs of Device A
- `PersistentKeepalive = 25`

## Admin Case - One to Many Nodes

This example demonstrates a scenario where Device A can communicate
bi-directionally with Devices B through D. This configuration could represent an
administrator or engineer accessing multiple resources
(servers, containers, or machines) in different networks.

![node-to-multiple-nodes](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/155856838-03e968d9-bc1e-46ce-a32f-9f53f3566526.png)

In the settings for each device, ensure the following parameters are set to the
values listed below. You can set device settings when creating the device config
(see [Add Devices](/user-guides/add-devices/)).
If you need to update settings on an existing device, you can do so by generating
a new device config.

Device A (Administrator Node)

- `AllowedIPs = 10.3.2.3/32, 10.3.2.4/32, 10.3.2.5/32`: This is the IP of
  devices B through D. Optionally you could set a range of IPs as long as it
  includes the IPs of Devices B through D.
- `PersistentKeepalive = 25` If the device is behind a NAT, this ensures the
  device is able to keep the tunnel alive and continue to receive packets from
  the WireGuard interface. Usually a value of `25` is sufficient, but you may
  need to decrease this value depending on your environment.

Device B

- `AllowedIPs = 10.3.2.2/32`: This is the IP or range of IPs of Device A
- `PersistentKeepalive = 25`

Device C

- `AllowedIPs = 10.3.2.2/32`: This is the IP or range of IPs of Device A
- `PersistentKeepalive = 25`

Device D

- `AllowedIPs = 10.3.2.2/32`: This is the IP or range of IPs of Device A
- `PersistentKeepalive = 25`

### Related Guides

- [NAT Gateway](/user-guides/use-cases/nat-gateway/)

Commit message:

Docs - Improve titles and descriptions (#1187)
* docs: update titles, descriptions

Changes:
- set more descriptive titles (better for readers and SEO)
- add meta descriptions
- convert titles to sentence case for consistency

* docs: small fixes

* fix trailing whitespaces

* fix spelling

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Jamil <jamilbk@users.noreply.github.com>
Signed-off-by: Jason G <jason@firez.one>

* add descriptions to client instructions

Signed-off-by: Jason G <jason@firez.one>
Co-authored-by: Jamil <jamilbk@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/docs/user-guides/use-cases/reverse-tunnel.mdx, after:

---
title: Reverse Tunnel
sidebar_position: 2
description: Configure Firezone as a relay to connect two or more devices.
---

This guide will walk through using Firezone as a relay to connect
two devices. A typical use case for this configuration is to enable an
administrator to access a server, container, or machine that is normally
behind a NAT or firewall.

## General Case - Node to Node

This example demonstrates a simple scenario where a tunnel is established
between Device A and Device B.

![node-to-node](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/155856835-2ad1f686-d894-43d1-8862-e3a8fcccee5c.png)
Start by creating Device A and Device B by navigating to `/users/[user_id]/new_device`.
In the settings for each device, ensure the following parameters are set to the
values listed below. You can set device settings when creating the device config
(see [Add Devices](/user-guides/add-devices/)).
If you need to update settings on an existing device, you can do so by generating
a new device config.

Note `PersistentKeepalive` can also be set in on the
`/settings/defaults` page for all devices.

Device A

- `AllowedIPs = 10.3.2.3/32`: This is the IP or range of IPs of Device B
- `PersistentKeepalive = 25` If the device is behind a NAT, this ensures the
  device is able to keep the tunnel alive and continue to receive packets from
  the WireGuard interface. Usually a value of `25` is sufficient, but you may
  need to decrease this value depending on your environment.

Device B

- `AllowedIPs = 10.3.2.2/32`: This is the IP or range of IPs of Device A
- `PersistentKeepalive = 25`

## Admin Case - One to Many Nodes

This example demonstrates a scenario where Device A can communicate
bi-directionally with Devices B through D. This configuration could represent an
administrator or engineer accessing multiple resources
(servers, containers, or machines) in different networks.

![node-to-multiple-nodes](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52545545/155856838-03e968d9-bc1e-46ce-a32f-9f53f3566526.png)

In the settings for each device, ensure the following parameters are set to the
values listed below. You can set device settings when creating the device config
(see [Add Devices](/user-guides/add-devices/)).
If you need to update settings on an existing device, you can do so by generating
a new device config.

Device A (Administrator Node)

- `AllowedIPs = 10.3.2.3/32, 10.3.2.4/32, 10.3.2.5/32`: This is the IP of
  devices B through D. Optionally you could set a range of IPs as long as it
  includes the IPs of Devices B through D.
- `PersistentKeepalive = 25` If the device is behind a NAT, this ensures the
  device is able to keep the tunnel alive and continue to receive packets from
  the WireGuard interface. Usually a value of `25` is sufficient, but you may
  need to decrease this value depending on your environment.

Device B

- `AllowedIPs = 10.3.2.2/32`: This is the IP or range of IPs of Device A
- `PersistentKeepalive = 25`

Device C

- `AllowedIPs = 10.3.2.2/32`: This is the IP or range of IPs of Device A
- `PersistentKeepalive = 25`

Device D

- `AllowedIPs = 10.3.2.2/32`: This is the IP or range of IPs of Device A
- `PersistentKeepalive = 25`

### Related Guides

- [NAT Gateway](/user-guides/use-cases/nat-gateway/)
